U.S. financial conditions were little changed, on balance, over the intermeeting period. In early November, market concerns about the fiscal outlook and ongoing federal budget negotiations seemed to intensify, prompting a notable reduction in equity prices and yields on Treasury securities. But these concerns reportedly eased somewhat over subsequent weeks, and the initial move in equity prices was reversed. In contrast, yields on intermediate- and long-term nominal Treasury securities declined, on net, perhaps reflecting some increase in safe-haven demand associated with concerns about the potential economic effects of a substantial tightening in fiscal policy. Indicators of inflation compensation derived from nominal and inflation-protected Treasury securities showed mixed changes and remained within the ranges observed over recent years.

The expected path of the federal funds rate derived from overnight index swap rates flattened somewhat, on balance, over the intermeeting period, as longer-dated rates declined. Market-based measures of uncertainty about the path of the federal funds rate beyond the near term also declined. The survey of primary dealers conducted prior to the December meeting showed that they expected the FOMC to maintain purchases of longer-term securities after year-end at about the current pace of $85 billion per month.

Conditions in unsecured and secured short-term dollar funding markets remained stable, on net, over the intermeeting period, with reports of only limited disruptions to trading or operations following Hurricane Sandy. Yields on Treasury bills maturing beyond the year-end were noticeably lower than those on shorter-term bills; market participants pointed to the anticipated ending of the Federal Reserve's maturity extension program and the expiration of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation's unlimited insurance of noninterest-bearing transaction deposits at the end of the year as factors contributing to this pattern of yields.

In the December Senior Credit Officer Opinion Survey on Dealer Financing Terms, respondents reported little change in credit terms over the past three months for important classes of dealer counterparties. While respondents reported that the use of leverage by counterparties had remained basically unchanged, they noted greater demand for funding of various types of securitization products.

Broad U.S. equity price indexes edged up, on net, over the intermeeting period, while equity prices of large domestic banks decreased a little. Nevertheless, the credit default swap spreads of most large domestic bank holding companies continued to move lower. Option-implied volatility for the S&P 500 index over the next month declined moderately, on balance, while measures of equity market volatility for longer maturities remained above their historical averages, excluding the financial crisis period.

Yields on investment-grade corporate bonds were little changed over the intermeeting period, and their spreads over yields on comparable-maturity Treasury securities widened modestly. Yields on speculative-grade corporate bonds fell to historical lows, and their spreads decreased slightly.

The pace of bond issuance by nonfinancial firms increased further in October and November after rising robustly in the third quarter, as some firms reportedly sought to issue new debt before the end of the year. Commercial and industrial (C&I) loans outstanding also expanded notably in October and November. Nonfinancial commercial paper outstanding increased somewhat in November following a small decline in October. In the syndicated leveraged loan market, institutional issuance surged in October before subsiding somewhat in November, although it remained at a still-robust level.

Financial conditions in the commercial real estate (CRE) sector were still generally strained amid elevated vacancy and delinquency rates. However, prices for CRE properties continued to increase in the third quarter, and issuance of commercial mortgage-backed securities remained at a solid pace in the current quarter.

Residential mortgage rates declined modestly over the intermeeting period, largely in line with the decline in MBS yields. Refinancing expanded a bit further in October and November. House prices continued to increase despite a rise in the proportion of properties sold through foreclosures or short sales. The share of existing mortgages that were seriously delinquent fell in the third quarter but remained elevated.

Consumer credit continued to expand briskly in September, led by sizable increases in auto and student loans. Revolving credit decreased in September but was little changed, on net, over the previous few months. Issuance of consumer asset-backed securities continued to rise at a strong pace. Delinquency rates on consumer credit generally remained low, with the notable exception of student loans.

Bank credit was about flat, on balance, over October and November. Growth in C&I loans and consumer loans was offset by a decline in banks' residential real estate loans. The November Survey of Terms of Business Lending indicated some easing in loan pricing and terms.

M2 growth was rapid in October but slowed in November. Liquid deposits continued to grow at a strong pace, as yields available on alternative money market instruments remained low. Reserves increased over the intermeeting period, in part because of the settlement of the ongoing MBS purchases announced at the September FOMC meeting.

In many foreign financial markets, asset prices fluctuated as sentiment regarding negotiations over both the U.S. fiscal situation and official support for vulnerable euro-area countries shifted during the period. Spreads on Greek sovereign bonds over comparable German bunds fell, on balance, reflecting in part the agreement by European officials and the International Monetary Fund to grant further aid to Greece. However, spreads on Italian and Spanish bonds were little changed on balance over the period. On net, foreign equity prices rose slightly. The foreign exchange value of the dollar edged lower on balance. However, the dollar appreciated against the Brazilian real and the Japanese yen, which were held down by weak economic data and, in the case of the yen, by market reaction to statements suggesting that the country's likely next government would urge the Bank of Japan to seek a higher rate of inflation. Yields on foreign benchmark sovereign bonds declined, as central banks maintained or extended monetary accommodation. The Bank of Japan expanded its asset purchase program and announced a new lending scheme. The Bank of England announced that it would transfer cash holdings from its asset purchase fund to the U.K. Treasury, a measure that may exert some further downward pressure on gilt yields to the extent that gilt issuance by the government is reduced. The Reserve Bank of Australia and several emerging market central banks also eased monetary policy.

The staff also reported on potential risks to financial stability, including those associated with a disorderly resolution of the so-called fiscal cliff, a delayed increase in the federal debt ceiling, or a future deterioration of financial conditions in Europe. In addition, in monitoring for possible adverse effects of the current environment of low interest rates, the staff surveyed a wide range of asset markets and financial institutions for signs of excessive valuations, leverage, or risk-taking that could pose systemic risks. Valuations for broad asset classes did not appear stretched, or supported by excessive leverage. Indicators of risk-taking and leverage had moderately increased, on balance, over the past couple of years but remained notably below their levels before the financial crisis.