At its meeting on September 16, 2003, the Federal Open Market Committee adopted a directive that called for maintaining conditions in reserve markets consistent with keeping the federal funds rate at around 1 percent. In reaching this decision, the Committee members generally perceived the upside and downside risks to the attainment of sustainable growth for the next few quarters to be roughly equal; however, they viewed the probability, though minor, of an unwelcome fall in inflation as exceeding that of a rise in inflation from its already low level. The Committee judged that, on balance, the risk of inflation becoming undesirably low would remain the predominant concern for the foreseeable future. In those circumstances, the Committee believed that policy accommodation could be maintained for a considerable period.

The Committee's decision to leave its target for the federal funds rate and assessment of risks unchanged at the September meeting was widely anticipated. Although there was relatively little shift in market expectations for the federal funds rate following the policy decision, longer-dated federal funds futures rates rose significantly in the weeks before the October meeting in the context of better-than-expected economic data, positive announcements of corporate earnings, and a pronounced weakening of the dollar. Short- and intermediate-term Treasury yields also increased somewhat over the intermeeting period, but yields on longer-term Treasuries were about unchanged. While rates on investment-grade securities moved about in line with those on Treasuries, yields and spreads on lower-tier obligations registered further significant and broad-based declines. Major equity indexes rose roughly 2 percent over the intermeeting period.

The exchange value of the dollar, as measured by the major currencies index, fell significantly over the intermeeting period. Negative market sentiment toward the dollar, apparently reinforced by market participants' interpretation of the G-7 communiqué from Dubai on September 20, was not overcome by several better-than-expected U.S. economic reports, though there were some short-lived gains related to the data releases during the period.

M2 contracted moderately in September after growing rapidly in July and August. The reversal appears to have stemmed mainly from a contraction in deposits resulting from reduced mortgage refinancing activity. In addition, the temporary effects of a major power blackout in August had boosted M2 growth in that month, and the subsequent runoff of those deposits likely depressed M2 in September.