The pace of the economic expansion appeared to have picked up substantially. Consumer spending and the demand for housing were quite strong in the third quarter and business outlays for capital evidently accelerated. At the same time, labor markets seemed to be leveling out, and industrial production had firmed in recent months. While core consumer prices had risen faster in recent months than earlier in the year, the twelve-month increase through September was notably lower than during the preceding year.

Labor markets appeared to be stabilizing as private nonfarm payrolls grew in September for the first time since January, and employment losses in July and August turned out to be smaller than data initially had indicated. The largest employment gain in September was in the business services sector, which includes temporary help supply firms. Employment also increased in most other major industries in September, with the exceptions of manufacturing and wholesale trade. Even in these sectors, the pace of job loss was somewhat slower than the declines of previous months. Aggregate hours of private production workers and the average workweek were both unchanged in September. The unemployment rate in September remained at 6.1 percent.

Conditions in the industrial sector had improved somewhat in the previous months. Industrial output displayed solid growth in the third quarter after declining earlier in the year. A downturn in motor vehicle assemblies depressed overall manufacturing somewhat in August, but a step-up in auto production boosted it significantly in September. The strength in manufacturing in September was somewhat offset, however, by a decrease in energy production as temperatures returned to more normal ranges after being unusually high in July and August. In line with these patterns in output, capacity utilization in manufacturing, which had been at historically low levels, decreased slightly in August, then firmed in September.

Real personal consumption expenditures surged in July and August, but available data suggested that consumer spending had fallen back in September, largely reflecting a swing in consumer purchases of motor vehicles. Even apart from motor vehicles, outlays rose at a solid pace in August, and they seemed to have declined only slightly in September. Spending was supported in recent months by the sizable boost to disposable personal income from tax cuts as well as by levels of wealth and confidence that were considerably above their values earlier in the year.

Housing construction and sales remained very strong in August and September despite some rise in mortgage rates from the very low levels reached in the early summer. The rapid pace of new single-family home construction eased slightly in August but advanced again in September. Multifamily home construction remained around its pace of the past several years. Sales of existing homes reached a record high in August and then climbed further in September. New home sales rose in August and September at a rate just a bit below the record set in June.

Real outlays for equipment and software in the third quarter appeared to have advanced at a faster rate than in the second quarter. Shipments of nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft moved up in September, more than reversing a decline in August. Orders for these goods rose moderately in September after being flat in August. Nominal outlays for construction of privately owned buildings were about unchanged, on net, during the twelve months ending in August. Continued strength in the construction of private institutional structures such as schools, churches, and hospitals was about offset by weakness in other areas of nonresidential construction.

Manufacturing and trade inventories excluding motor vehicles fell further in August after edging down in July. Manufacturers ran off stocks at a fairly rapid pace in both months, while wholesalers and retailers excluding motor vehicle and parts dealers recorded small declines in stocks in August after accumulations in July. Generally small changes in shipments and sales in the July-August period kept book-value inventory-sales ratios about flat at very low levels.

The U.S. international trade deficit declined in August to its lowest level since February as imports fell more than exports. Available data for the third quarter generally suggested moderate growth in the major foreign industrial countries. Evidence pointed to a likely resumption of real GDP growth in the third quarter in Canada and the euro area and continued expansion in Japan and the United Kingdom.

Core consumer prices rose slightly in August and September, but headline consumer inflation was up a bit more, largely reflecting a run-up in gasoline prices. Energy prices also boosted overall consumer inflation over the past twelve months, while core consumer inflation moved lower over the same period. At the producer level, core prices were about unchanged during August and September, but rising energy and food prices led to somewhat larger increases in the prices of total finished goods. With regard to labor costs, average hourly earnings of production or nonsupervisory workers on private nonfarm payrolls edged down in September. The increase in earnings during the previous twelve months was a bit below that during the previous year.