In a joint session of the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the deputy manager of the System Open Market Account (SOMA) reported on developments in domestic and foreign financial markets as well as System open market operations conducted during the period since the Committee met on September 16-17, 2014. In addition, the deputy manager summarized the outcomes of recent test operations of the Term Deposit Facility, described the results from the overnight reverse repurchase agreement (ON RRP) operational exercise, and reviewed the implications of recent foreign central bank policy actions for the international portion of the SOMA portfolio. The SOMA manager then discussed the Open Market Desk's plans for modestly expanding the list of counterparties eligible to participate in ON RRP operations based on substantially the same criteria established in the past for such counterparties. The manager also described ongoing staff work on improving data collections regarding bank funding markets and possibly using those data to provide more robust measures of bank funding rates. Finally, the manager reported on potential arrangements that would allow depository institutions to pledge funds held in a segregated account at the Federal Reserve as collateral in borrowing transactions with private creditors and would provide an additional supplementary tool during policy normalization; the manager noted possible next steps that the staff could potentially undertake to investigate the issues related to such arrangements.

Next, the staff outlined two proposals that the Committee could consider for further testing of RRP operations. In the first proposal, the Desk would vary by modest amounts the interest rate on ON RRP operations according to a preannounced schedule. Varying the spread between the ON RRP rate and the interest on excess reserves rate could provide the Committee with information about the effect of that spread on money markets and the demand for ON RRP. In addition, changes in the ON RRP rate would provide further information about the effectiveness of an ON RRP facility in providing a floor for money market rates during policy normalization. In the second proposal, the Desk would conduct a series of preannounced term RRP operations that would extend across the end of the year. In their discussion of term RRP testing, participants noted that the testing could provide information about the potential effectiveness of another of the Committee's supplementary policy tools and would help address expected downward pressures on short-term rates at year-end. But it was also noted that by conducting the term RRPs, the Committee would be losing information on how market participants might adjust and make investment arrangements prior to year-end with only the $300 billion in ON RRP available. One participant commented that the downward pressure on rates at year-end might be more directly addressed by raising the overall size limit on the ON RRP exercise. However, it was emphasized that increasing the cap on ON RRP operations at year-end could raise the risks for financial markets that had led the FOMC to impose the cap; these concerns were seen as less pronounced with a temporary program of term RRP operations. It was also noted that the proposed term RRP operations were only a test and that the Committee had not yet decided the conditions under which such operations would be used in the future. 4

Following the discussion of the testing of RRP operations, the Committee unanimously approved the following resolution on the ON RRP exercise:

"The Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) modifies the authorization concerning overnight reverse repurchase operations adopted at the September 17, 2014, FOMC meeting as follows: (i) The offering rate of the operations may vary from zero to ten basis points. This modification shall be effective beginning with the operation conducted on November 3, 2014, and conclude with the operation conducted on December 12, 2014."

By unanimous vote, the Committee approved the following resolution on term RRP operations:

"During the period of December 1, 2014, to December 30, 2014, the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) authorizes the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to conduct a series of term reverse repurchase operations involving U.S. Government securities. Such operations shall: (i) mature no later than January 5, 2015; (ii) be subject to an overall size limit of $300 billion outstanding at any one time; (iii) be subject to a maximum bid rate of ten basis points; (iv) be awarded to all submitters: (A) at the highest submitted rate if the sum of the bids received is less than or equal to the preannounced size of the operation, or (B) at the stopout rate, determined by evaluating bids in ascending order by submitted rate up to the point at which the total quantity of bids equals the preannounced size of the operation, with all bids below this rate awarded in full at the stopout rate and all bids at the stopout rate awarded on a pro rata basis, if the sum of the counterparty offers received is greater than the preannounced size of the operation. Such operations may be for forward settlement. The System Open Market Account manager will inform the FOMC in advance of the terms of the planned operations. The Chair must approve the terms of, timing of the announcement of, and timing of the operations. These operations shall be conducted in addition to the authorized overnight reverse repurchase agreements, which remain subject to a separate overall size limit of $300 billion per day."

By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Desk's domestic transactions over the intermeeting period. There were no intervention operations in foreign currencies for the System's account over the intermeeting period.

The Board meeting concluded at the end of the discussion of developments in financial markets and the Federal Reserve's balance sheet.