The decisions by the FOMC at its March meeting to continue its asset purchase program and to maintain the 0 to 1/4 percent target range for the federal funds rate were in line with market expectations; nonetheless, the accompanying statement prompted a modest rise in nominal yields, as market participants reportedly perceived a somewhat more optimistic tone in the Committee's economic outlook, as well as heightened concern about inflation risks. Over the intermeeting period, yields on nominal Treasury securities changed little, on net, amid swings in investors' assessments of global risks. Short-term funding rates, including the effective federal funds rate, shifted down several basis points in early April following a change in the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation's deposit insurance assessment system. On net, the expected path of the federal funds rate over the next two years was little changed over the intermeeting period.

Measures of inflation compensation over the next 5 years based on nominal and inflation-protected Treasury securities increased slightly, on net, over the intermeeting period, partly reflecting the ongoing rise in commodity prices. Staff models suggested that the modest increase in inflation compensation 5 to 10 years ahead was mostly attributable to increases in liquidity and inflation-risk premiums rather than higher expected inflation.

Over the intermeeting period, yields on corporate bonds were generally little changed, on net, and spreads of investment- and speculative-grade corporate bonds relative to comparable-maturity Treasury securities narrowed slightly. Average secondary-market prices for syndicated leveraged loans moved up further. However, conditions in the municipal bond market remained somewhat strained.

Broad U.S. stock price indexes rose, on net, over the intermeeting period, as initial reports of better-than-expected first-quarter earnings lifted stock prices in late April. Option-implied volatility on the S&P 500 index was moderately lower, on net, ending the intermeeting period at the low end of its recent range.

Net debt financing by nonfinancial corporations remained robust in March. Net issuance of investment- and speculative-grade bonds by nonfinancial corporations continued to be strong, and outstanding amounts of commercial and industrial (C&I) loans and nonfinancial commercial paper increased noticeably. Gross public equity issuance by nonfinancial firms was robust in March, and indicators of the credit quality of nonfinancial firms improved further.

Commercial mortgage markets showed some signs of stabilization. Delinquency rates for commercial real estate loans appeared to have leveled off in recent months. Issuance of commercial mortgage-backed securities picked up in the first quarter, although commercial real estate loans at banks continued to run off. In commercial real estate markets, property sales remained tepid, and prices stayed at depressed levels.

Rates on conforming fixed-rate residential mortgages rose modestly during the intermeeting period, and their spreads relative to 10-year Treasury yields narrowed slightly. Mortgage refinancing activity remained near its lowest level in more than two years. The Treasury Department's announcement in late March that it would begin selling its holdings of agency MBS at a gradual pace had little lasting effect on MBS spreads. The Federal Reserve began competitive sales of the non-agency residential MBS held by Maiden Lane II LLC; initial sales met with strong demand, but market prices of non-agency residential MBS were reportedly little changed overall. The rates of serious delinquencies for subprime and prime mortgages were nearly unchanged but remained at elevated levels. However, the rate of new delinquencies on prime mortgages declined further.

Conditions in consumer credit markets continued to improve gradually. Total consumer credit growth picked up in February, as a gain in nonrevolving credit more than offset a further contraction in revolving credit. Delinquency and charge-off rates for credit card debt moved down in recent months and approached pre-crisis levels. Issuance of consumer asset-backed securities remained steady in the first quarter of the year.

Bank credit was about unchanged in March after declining, on average, in January and February. Core loans--the sum of C&I, real estate, and consumer loans--continued to contract, while holdings of securities increased moderately. The Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices conducted in April indicated that, on net, bank lending standards and terms had eased somewhat further during the first quarter of the year and demand for C&I loans, commercial mortgages, and auto loans had increased, while demand for residential mortgages continued to decline.

M2 expanded at a moderate pace in March. Liquid deposits, the largest component of M2, advanced at a solid pace likely reflecting very low opportunity costs of holding such deposits. Currency advanced significantly, supported by robust foreign demand for U.S. bank notes.

Foreign sovereign bond yields generally were little changed and equity prices rose, on net, over the intermeeting period, although equity prices in Japan remained below their pre-earthquake levels despite the record amounts of liquidity injected by the Bank of Japan and the expansion of its asset purchase program. The European Central Bank raised its main policy rate 25 basis points to 1-1/4 percent during the intermeeting period, and markets appeared to have priced in additional rate increases over the rest of the year. The Bank of England and the Bank of Canada left their policy rates unchanged, but quotes from futures markets continued to suggest that both central banks would raise rates later this year. China's monetary authority further increased banks' lending rates and deposit rates and continued to tighten reserve requirements; monetary policy in a number of other EMEs was also tightened over the intermeeting period.

The broad nominal index of the U.S. dollar declined more than 2 percent over the intermeeting period, though the dollar appreciated, on net, against the Japanese yen. The yen strengthened to an all-time high against the dollar after the earthquake in Japan, but this move was more than reversed when the G-7 countries intervened to sell yen.

In early April, the Portuguese government requested financial support from the European Union and the International Monetary Fund, but market participants reportedly remained concerned about whether the Portuguese government would reach agreement on an associated fiscal consolidation plan. Later in the intermeeting period, yields on Greece's and other peripheral European countries' sovereign debt jumped, reflecting heightened market focus on a possible restructuring of Greek sovereign debt.