The U.S. economic forecast prepared by the staff for the January FOMC meeting was revised down a little, on balance, primarily reflecting somewhat lower projected paths for domestic equity prices and foreign economic growth. The staff estimated that U.S. real GDP growth was solid in the fourth quarter of last year, bolstered by consumer spending and business investment, and that the effects of the partial federal government shutdown were quite small in that quarter. Real GDP growth was expected to slow but remain solid in the first half of this year, with the effects of the partial federal government shutdown modestly restraining GDP growth in the first quarter and those effects being reversed in the second quarter. In the medium term, real GDP growth in 2019 was forecast to be at a rate above the staff's estimate of potential output growth, step down to the growth rate of potential output next year and then slow further to a pace below potential output growth in 2021. The unemployment rate was projected to decline somewhat further below the staff's estimate of its longer-run natural rate but to bottom out by the end of this year and begin to edge up in 2021. With labor market conditions judged to already be tight, the staff continued to assume that projected employment gains would manifest in smaller-than-usual downward pressure on the unemployment rate and in larger-than-usual upward pressure on the labor force participation rate.

The staff's forecast for inflation was little revised for the January FOMC meeting. Core PCE price inflation was still expected to step up to 2 percent over this year as a whole and then to run at that level through the medium term. Total PCE price inflation was forecast to be a little below core inflation this year and next, reflecting projected declines in energy prices, and then to run at the same level as core inflation in 2021.

The staff viewed the uncertainty around its projections for real GDP growth, the unemployment rate, and inflation as similar to the average of the past 20 years. The staff also saw the risks to the forecasts for real GDP growth and the unemployment rate as roughly balanced. On the upside, household spending and business investment could expand faster than the staff projected, supported in part by the tax cuts enacted last year. On the downside, trade policies and foreign economic developments could move in directions that have significant negative effects on U.S. economic growth. Risks to the inflation projection also were seen as balanced. The upside risk that inflation could increase more than expected in an economy that was projected to move further above its potential was counterbalanced by the downside risk that longer-term inflation expectations may be lower than was assumed in the staff forecast, as well as the possibility that the dollar could appreciate if foreign economic conditions deteriorated.