The information available for the January 29-30 meeting indicated that labor market conditions continued to strengthen and that growth in real gross domestic product (GDP) was solid in the fourth quarter of last year, although the availability of data was more limited than usual because of the partial federal government shutdown that extended from December 22 to January 25. Consumer price inflation, as measured by the 12‑month percentage change in the price index for personal consumption expenditures (PCE), was a bit below 2 percent in November, held down in part by recent declines in consumer energy prices. Survey-based measures of longer-run inflation expectations were little changed.

Total nonfarm payroll employment expanded strongly in December. The national unemployment rate edged up but was still at a low level of 3.9 percent, while the labor force participation rate also increased somewhat; as a result, the employment-to-population ratio remained steady in December. The unemployment rates for African Americans, Asians, and Hispanics in December were below their levels at the end of the previous economic expansion, although persistent differentials in unemployment rates across groups remained. The share of workers employed part time for economic reasons continued to be close to the lows reached in late 2007. The rates of private-sector job openings and quits edged down in November but were still at high levels; initial claims for unemployment insurance benefits through the middle of January were near historically low levels. Average hourly earnings for all employees rose 3.2 percent over the 12 months ending in December.

Industrial production increased solidly in December. Output gains were strong in the manufacturing and mining sectors, while the output of utilities declined, with warmer-than-usual temperatures lowering the demand for heating. Automakers' assembly schedules suggested that the production of light motor vehicles would ease somewhat in the first quarter, although new orders indexes from national and regional manufacturing surveys pointed to moderate gains in overall factory output in the coming months.

Household spending looked to have increased strongly in the fourth quarter, as real PCE growth was strong in October and November. The release of the retail sales report for December was delayed, but available indicators--such as credit card and debit card transaction data and light motor vehicle sales--suggested that household spending growth remained strong in December. Key factors that influence consumer spending--including ongoing gains in real disposable personal income and still-elevated measures of households' net worth--continued to be supportive of solid real PCE growth in the near term. Consumer sentiment, as measured by the University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers, was less upbeat in early January than it had been last year but remained at a generally favorable level.

Real residential investment appeared to have declined again in the fourth quarter, likely reflecting in part decreases in the affordability of housing arising from both the net increase in mortgage interest rates over the past year and ongoing, though somewhat slower, house price appreciation. Data on starts and permits for new residential construction in December were not available, but building permit issuance for new single-family homes--which tends to be a good indicator of the underlying trend in construction of such homes--had moved down modestly in the previous couple of months. Sales of existing homes decreased, on net, over November and December, while data on new home sales for those two months were delayed.

Growth in real private expenditures for business equipment and intellectual property looked to have picked up solidly in the fourth quarter. Nominal shipments of nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft rose, on balance, in October and November, while information on shipments for December was delayed; available indicators of transportation equipment spending in the fourth quarter were strong. Forward-looking indicators of business equipment spending--such as orders for nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft and readings on business sentiment--pointed to somewhat slower spending gains in the near term. Data on nominal business expenditures for nonresidential structures outside of the drilling and mining sector in November were not available. The number of crude oil and natural gas rigs in operation--an indicator of business spending for structures in the drilling and mining sector--was roughly flat in December and through most of January.

Total real government purchases appeared to have increased moderately in the fourth quarter. Nominal defense spending in October and November pointed to solid growth in real federal purchases, although spending data for December were delayed. The partial federal government shutdown restrained real federal purchases somewhat in the fourth quarter and likely had a more significant negative effect on federal purchases in the first quarter. Real purchases by state and local governments looked to have risen modestly in the fourth quarter, as the payrolls of those governments expanded a bit over that period. Nominal state and local construction spending had risen solidly in October, but construction data for November were delayed.

Data on U.S. international trade for November and December also were delayed. The available data for October suggested that the contribution of the change in net exports to real GDP growth in the fourth quarter would be much less negative than the drag of nearly 2 percentage points in the third quarter.

Total U.S. consumer prices, as measured by the PCE price index, increased 1.8 percent over the 12 months ending in November. Core PCE price inflation, which excludes changes in consumer food and energy prices, was 1.9 percent over that same period. The consumer price index (CPI) rose 1.9 percent over the 12 months ending in December, while core CPI inflation was 2.2 percent. Recent readings on survey-based measures of longer-run inflation expectations--including those from the Michigan survey and the Desk's Survey of Primary Dealers and Survey of Market Participants--were little changed.

Recent data suggested that foreign economic growth was subdued in the fourth quarter relative to earlier in the year. In the advanced foreign economies (AFEs), especially the euro area, indicators of economic activity weakened further, though they remained consistent with positive economic growth. In the emerging market economies (EMEs), growth in Mexico and Brazil appeared to have slowed to a modest pace in the fourth quarter after a temporary pickup in the third quarter. The Chinese economy expanded at a slower pace than earlier in the year amid notable weakness in household spending, and Chinese imports from other emerging Asian economies turned down. Foreign inflation fell in the fourth quarter, largely reflecting lower oil prices. Inflation pressures, especially in some AFEs, generally remained muted.