The deputy manager of the System Open Market Account (SOMA) provided an overview of developments in U.S. and global financial markets. Financial markets were quite volatile over the intermeeting period. Market participants pointed to a number of factors as contributing to the heightened volatility and sustained declines in risk asset prices and interest rates over recent months including a weaker outlook and greater uncertainties for foreign economies (particularly for Europe and China), perceptions of greater policy risks, and the partial shutdown of the federal government. Against this backdrop, market participants appeared to interpret FOMC communications at the time of the December meeting as not fully appreciating the tightening of financial conditions and the associated downside risks to the U.S. economic outlook that had emerged since the fall. In addition, some market reports suggested that investors perceived the FOMC to be insufficiently flexible in its approach to adjusting the path for the federal funds rate or the process for balance sheet normalization in light of those risks. The deterioration in risk sentiment late in December was reportedly amplified by poor liquidity and thin trading conditions around year-end.

Early in the new year, market sentiment improved following communications by Federal Reserve officials emphasizing that the Committee could be "patient" in considering further adjustments to the stance of policy and that it would be flexible in managing the reduction of securities holdings in the SOMA. On balance, stock prices finished the period up almost 5 percent while corporate risk spreads narrowed, reversing a portion of the changes in these variables since the September FOMC meeting.

The deputy manager reported results from the Open Market Desk's latest surveys of primary dealers and market participants. Regarding the outlook for policy, the median path for the federal funds rate among respondents had shifted down about 25 basis points relative to the responses from the surveys conducted ahead of the December meeting. Moreover, the average probability that respondents attached to an increase in the target range as the next policy action declined and the corresponding probabilities they attached to the possibility that the target range would be unchanged or lowered at some point this year increased. Concerning expectations for the FOMC statement, many survey respondents anticipated the retention of language pointing to the likelihood of "some further gradual increases" in the target range for the federal funds rate but many also expected the statement to emphasize patience or data dependence in the conduct of policy. Consistent with recent communications that the FOMC would be flexible in its approach to balance sheet normalization, the survey results also suggested that the respondents anticipated that the Committee would slow the balance sheet runoff in scenarios that involved a reduction in the target range for the federal funds rate.

In reviewing money market developments, the deputy manager noted that federal funds continued to trade at rates close to the interest on excess reserves rate. Moreover, no signs of reserve scarcity were evident in the behavior of the federal funds rate; the correlation between daily changes in reserve balances and the federal funds rate remained close to zero. In other markets, repurchase agreement (repo) rates spiked at year-end, reportedly reflecting strong demands for financing from dealers associated with large Treasury auction net settlements on that day combined with a cutback in the supply of financing available from banks and others managing the size of their balance sheets over year-end for reporting purposes. The deputy manager noted that the Federal Reserve Bank of New York was planning to release a notice in early February for public comment on plans to include new data on selected deposits in the calculation of the overnight bank funding rate (OBFR). In addition, the staff had begun work aimed at publishing a series of backward-looking average secured overnight financing rates (SOFR) as a further step to support reference rate reform. The staff planned to solicit public feedback on this effort later this year and initiate publication of these averages by the first half of 2020.

Following the briefing, participants raised a number of questions about market reports that the Federal Reserve's balance sheet runoff and associated "quantitative tightening" had been an important factor contributing to the selloff in equity markets in the closing months of last year. While respondents assessed that the reduction of securities held in the SOMA would put some modest upward pressure on Treasury yields and agency mortgage-backed securities (MBS) yields over time, they generally placed little weight on balance sheet reduction as a prime factor spurring the deterioration in risk sentiment over that period. However, some other investors reportedly held firmly to the belief that the runoff of the Federal Reserve's securities holdings was a factor putting significant downward pressure on risky asset prices, and the investment decisions of these investors, particularly in thin market conditions around the year-end, might have had an outsized effect on market prices for a time. Participants also discussed the hypothesis that investors may have taken some signal about the future path of the federal funds rate based on perceptions that the Federal Reserve was unwilling to adjust the pace of balance sheet runoff in light of economic and financial developments.

By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Desk's domestic transactions over the intermeeting period. There were no intervention operations in foreign currencies for the System's account during the intermeeting period.