Committee participants resumed their discussion from the December 2018 meeting of the appropriate long-run framework for monetary policy implementation. At the January meeting, the staff provided briefings on the effectiveness and efficiency of the Committee's current operating regime and on options for transitioning to the longer-run size of the balance sheet.

The staff noted that the Committee had previously indicated that, in the longer run, it intends to operate with no more securities holdings than necessary to implement monetary policy efficiently and effectively. In considering the effectiveness of the operating regime, the staff observed that over recent years, the Federal Reserve had been able to implement monetary policy in an environment with ample reserves by adjusting administered rates--including the rates on required and excess reserve balances and the offered rate at the overnight reverse repurchase agreement facility--without needing to actively manage the supply of reserves. Over this period, the effective federal funds rate was generally steady at levels well within the Committee's target range despite substantial changes in the level of reserves in the banking system and significant changes in money markets, regulations, and financial institutions' business models. In addition, other money market rates generally moved closely with the federal funds rate. The current regime was therefore effective both in providing control of the policy rate and in ensuring transmission of the policy stance to other rates and broader financial markets.

The staff briefing also included a discussion of factors relevant in judging the level of reserves that would support the efficient implementation of monetary policy. The staff suggested that maintaining a buffer of reserves above the minimum quantity that corresponds to the flat portion of the reserve demand curve could reduce the size and frequency of open market operations needed to maintain good control of the policy rate. The aggregate level of reserves had already declined by $1.2 trillion from a peak level of $2.8 trillion reached in October 2014; the decline stemmed from both reductions in asset holdings and increases in nonreserve liabilities such as Federal Reserve notes in circulation. Some recent survey information and other evidence suggested that reserves might begin to approach an efficient level later this year. Against this backdrop, the staff presented options for substantially slowing the decline in reserves by ending the reduction in asset holdings at some point over the latter half of this year and thereafter holding the size of the SOMA portfolio roughly constant for a time so that the average level of reserves would fall at a very gradual pace reflecting the trend growth in other Federal Reserve liabilities.

The staff also described options for communicating plans both for the operating regime and for the completion of the normalization of the size of the balance sheet. If the Committee reached a decision to continue using its current operating regime, announcing this decision after the current meeting would help reduce uncertainty about both the long-run implementation framework and the likely evolution of the balance sheet. In addition, the Committee could revise its previous communications to make clear that it was flexible in its approach to normalizing the balance sheet and was prepared to change the details of its balance sheet normalization plans in light of economic and financial developments if necessary to support the FOMC's broader policy goals. The staff noted that, after the end of asset redemptions, the Desk could reinvest principal payments received from holdings of agency MBS in Treasury securities as directed.

Participants noted some of the key advantages of the Federal Reserve's current operating regime, including good control of the policy rate in a variety of conditions and good transmission to other money market rates and broader financial markets. They observed that a regime that controlled the policy rate through active management of the supply of reserves likely would have disadvantages. In particular, the level and variability of reserve demand and supply were likely to be much larger than in the period before the crisis, and stabilizing the policy rate in this environment would require large and frequent open market operations. Participants judged that, in light of their extensive previous discussions, it was now appropriate to provide the public with more certainty that the Federal Reserve would continue to use its current operating regime. Choosing an operating regime would also allow the Committee to move forward on related issues, including plans for concluding the normalization of the size of the balance sheet. Participants emphasized the importance of describing their chosen operating regime in clear terms to enhance public understanding.

Participants discussed market commentary that suggested that the process of balance sheet normalization might be influencing financial markets. Participants noted that the ongoing reduction in the Federal Reserve's asset holdings had proceeded smoothly for more than a year, with no significant effects on financial markets. The gradual reduction in securities holdings had been announced well in advance and, as intended, was proceeding largely in the background, with the federal funds rate remaining the Committee's primary tool for adjusting the stance of policy. Nonetheless, some investors might have interpreted previous communications as indicating that a very high threshold would have to be met before the Committee would be willing to adjust its balance sheet normalization plans. Participants observed that, although the target range for the federal funds rate was the Committee's primary means of adjusting the stance of policy, the balance sheet normalization process should proceed in a way that supports the achievement of the Federal Reserve's dual-mandate goals of maximum employment and stable prices. Consistent with this principle, participants agreed that it was important to be flexible in managing the process of balance sheet normalization, and that it would be appropriate to adjust the details of balance sheet normalization plans in light of economic and financial developments if necessary to achieve the Committee's macroeconomic objectives.

Almost all participants thought that it would be desirable to announce before too long a plan to stop reducing the Federal Reserve's asset holdings later this year. Such an announcement would provide more certainty about the process for completing the normalization of the size of the Federal Reserve's balance sheet. A substantial majority expected that when asset redemptions ended, the level of reserves would likely be somewhat larger than necessary for efficient and effective implementation of monetary policy; if so, many suggested that some further very gradual decline in the average level of reserves, reflecting the trend growth of other liabilities such as Federal Reserve notes in circulation, could be appropriate. In these participants' view, this process would allow the Federal Reserve to arrive slowly at an efficient level of reserves while maintaining good control of short-term interest rates without needing to engage in more frequent open market operations. A few participants judged that there would be little benefit to allowing reserves to continue to fall after the end of redemptions or that this approach could have costs, such as an undue risk of volatility in short-term interest rates, that would exceed its benefits. These participants thought that upon ending asset redemptions, the Federal Reserve should begin adding to its assets to offset growth in nonreserve liabilities, so as to keep the average level of reserves relatively stable. A couple of participants suggested that a ceiling facility to mitigate temporary unexpected pressures in reserve markets could play a useful role in supporting policy implementation at lower levels of reserves.

Participants commented that, in light of the Committee's longstanding plan to hold primarily Treasury securities in the long run, it would be appropriate once asset redemptions end to reinvest most, if not all, principal payments received from agency MBS in Treasury securities. Some thought that continuing to reinvest agency MBS principal payments in excess of $20 billion per month in agency MBS, as under the current balance sheet normalization plan, would simplify communications or provide a helpful backstop against scenarios in which large declines in long-term interest rates caused agency MBS prepayment speeds to increase sharply. However, some others judged that retaining the cap on agency MBS redemptions was unnecessary at this stage in the normalization process. These participants noted considerations in support of this view, including that principal payments were unlikely to reach the $20 billion level after 2019, that the cap could slightly slow the return to a portfolio of primarily Treasury securities, or that the Committee would have the flexibility to adjust the details of its balance sheet normalization plans in light of economic and financial developments. Participants commented that it would be important over time to develop and communicate plans for reinvesting agency MBS principal payments, and they expected to continue their discussion of balance sheet normalization and related issues at upcoming meetings.

Following the discussion, the Chairman proposed that the Committee communicate its intentions regarding monetary policy implementation and its willingness to adjust the details of its balance sheet normalization program by publishing a statement at the conclusion of the meeting. All participants agreed with the proposed statement.

STATEMENT REGARDING MONETARY POLICY IMPLEMENTATION AND BALANCE SHEET NORMALIZATION (Adopted January 30, 2019)

After extensive deliberations and thorough review of experience to date, the Committee judges that it is appropriate at this time to provide additional information regarding its plans to implement monetary policy over the longer run. Additionally, the Committee is revising its earlier guidance regarding the conditions under which it could adjust the details of its balance sheet normalization program. 5 Accordingly, all participants agreed to the following:

The Committee intends to continue to implement monetary policy in a regime in which an ample supply of reserves ensures that control over the level of the federal funds rate and other short-term interest rates is exercised primarily through the setting of the Federal Reserve's administered rates, and in which active management of the supply of reserves is not required. The Committee continues to view changes in the target range for the federal funds rate as its primary means of adjusting the stance of monetary policy. The Committee is prepared to adjust any of the details for completing balance sheet normalization in light of economic and financial developments. Moreover, the Committee would be prepared to use its full range of tools, including altering the size and composition of its balance sheet, if future economic conditions were to warrant a more accommodative monetary policy than can be achieved solely by reducing the federal funds rate.