Investor risk sentiment fluctuated materially over the intermeeting period. A variety of factors--including FOMC communications, weaker-than-expected data, trade policy uncertainties, the partial federal government shutdown, and concerns about the outlook for corporate earnings--were cited by market participants as contributing to a deterioration in risk sentiment early in the period. During this time, broad equity indexes declined substantially amid a sharp rise in financial market volatility, and corporate bond spreads widened notably. Subsequently, positive signals regarding trade policy, robust economic data releases, and communications from FOMC participants led to an improvement in risk sentiment. On net, the S&P 500 index rose, option-implied volatility--the VIX--fell, Treasury yields declined, and corporate spreads narrowed over the intermeeting period. Despite the intermeeting moves in financial markets, financial conditions remained notably tighter than in September 2018. Financing conditions for businesses and households tightened a bit further over the intermeeting period but remained generally supportive of spending.

December FOMC communications were reportedly perceived by market participants as not fully appreciating the implications of tighter financial conditions and softening global data over recent months for the U.S. economic outlook. Subsequent communications from FOMC participants were interpreted as suggesting that the FOMC would be patient in assessing the implications of recent economic and financial developments. The market-implied path for the federal funds rate in 2019 was little changed, on net, over the intermeeting period and investors continued to expect no change to the target range for the federal funds rate at the January FOMC meeting. The market-implied path for 2020 shifted down somewhat.

Nominal Treasury yields fluctuated substantially, with heightened risk aversion contributing to a significant decline in yields early in the intermeeting period. Subsequently, yields rose, though 2-, 5-, and 10-year yields still ended the period somewhat lower, on net. The spread between the yields on nominal 10- and 2-year Treasury securities was little changed over the period, and remained in the lower end of its historical range over recent decades. The near-term forward spread--the difference between the current implied three-month forward rate at a horizon six quarters ahead (derived from the Treasury yield curve) and the current yield on a three-month Treasury bill--narrowed, on net, and also was in the lower end of its historical distribution. The 5-year and 5-to-10-year-forward inflation compensation measures based on Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities (TIPS) edged down a bit over the period; both measures were down significantly from levels prevailing in the fall of last year.

In U.S. risky asset markets, the S&P 500 equity index was down as much as 8 percent at one point during the period but ended the period notably higher. On net, the VIX fell substantially while corporate bond spreads narrowed a bit.

The federal funds rate and other overnight funding rates rose following the increase in the target range for the federal funds rate at the December FOMC meeting. Year-end pressures in repo markets were reportedly exacerbated by a high volume of settlements of Treasury securities against a backdrop of large dealer inventories and reduced intermediation by global systemically important banks. General collateral repo rates moved up sharply at year-end but subsequently returned to normal levels.

Foreign financial markets followed the same general pattern as those in the United States. On balance, foreign equity prices moved up moderately and sovereign credit spreads in EMEs narrowed. Moreover, inflows to dedicated emerging market funds resumed after two quarters of outflows. Longer-term sovereign yields in AFEs edged lower on net.

The dollar depreciated broadly amid falling U.S. yields and greater investor optimism about prospects for some EMEs. The dollar depreciated notably against the British pound, on net, as market participants reportedly saw an increased likelihood of a delay in the Brexit process. The dollar also depreciated considerably against the Brazilian real and the Mexican peso following progress on pension reform in Brazil and a fiscal announcement in Mexico that was perceived as prudent.

Financing conditions for nonfinancial firms tightened somewhat, on balance. Gross issuance of corporate bonds slowed considerably in December across the credit rating spectrum but rebounded in January. Even so, the volume of high-yield bonds issued by nonfinancial firms remained well below its average over the past few years. Spreads on nonfinancial corporate bonds were volatile but narrowed a bit, on net, and stayed at levels well above those that prevailed a year ago. The credit quality of nonfinancial corporations continued to show signs of deterioration, although actual corporate bond defaults remained low overall. Institutional leveraged loan issuance slowed in December to its lowest level since July 2016, as loan spreads widened substantially. Small business credit market conditions were little changed, and credit conditions in municipal bond markets stayed accommodative on net.

Private-sector analysts significantly revised down their projections for corporate earnings for the fourth quarter and for 2019 as a whole. The pace of gross equity issuance through both initial and seasoned offerings was sluggish in December, amid reports that several firms may have pushed back initial equity offerings.

Respondents to the January 2019 Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices (SLOOS) reported that lending standards for commercial and industrial (C&I) loans remained basically unchanged in the fourth quarter, after having reported easing standards over the past several quarters. Growth of C&I loans on banks' balance sheets picked up in the fourth quarter, reflecting stronger originations as well as reduced paydowns and loan sales.

In the commercial real estate (CRE) sector, financing conditions remained accommodative. Although commercial mortgage backed securities (CMBS) spreads were volatile, they were little changed, on net, over the intermeeting period, and issuance of both agency and non-agency CMBS remained strong. CRE loan growth at banks continued to expand at a pace comparable with that seen over the course of 2018. Banks in the January SLOOS reported that demand was unchanged, on net, in the fourth quarter for nonfarm nonresidential loans, the largest CRE loan category, while demand was reportedly weaker for multifamily loans and construction loans. On balance, banks reported tightening their standards for all types of CRE loans in the fourth quarter.

Financing conditions in the residential mortgage market also remained accommodative for most borrowers. Purchase mortgage origination activity continued to decline modestly through November, while refinancing activity continued to be muted.

In consumer credit markets, financing conditions tightened a bit but, on balance, remained generally supportive of growth in household spending. Banks reported in the SLOOS that they tightened credit card lending standards during the fourth quarter. In the consumer asset-backed securities market, spreads widened somewhat amid broad market volatility.

The staff provided an update on its views with respect to potential risks to financial stability. The increase in financial market volatility seen over the fall of last year was characterized as a return to historically more typical levels, following the historically low-volatility environment that persisted through much of 2017 and 2018. However, the increase in volatility in financial markets in December was viewed as substantial and as likely exacerbated by thin year-end liquidity, among other factors. Staff judged asset valuation pressures in equity and corporate debt markets to have abated somewhat in the period since the assessment presented in the November 2018 financial stability report. Staff continued to monitor developments in the leveraged loan market given the sharp rise in spreads and slowdown in issuance late last year. The build-up in overall nonfinancial business debt to levels close to historical highs relative to GDP was viewed as a factor that could amplify adverse shocks to the business sector. Staff continued to judge risks associated with household-sector debt as moderate. Both the risks associated with financial leverage and the vulnerabilities related to maturity transformation were viewed as being low, as they have been for some time.