Participants resumed their discussion of issues related to balance sheet normalization with a focus on the long-run maturity composition of the System Open Market Account (SOMA) portfolio. The staff presented two illustrative scenarios as a way of highlighting a range of implications of different long-run target portfolio compositions. In the first scenario, the maturity composition of the U.S. Treasury securities in the target portfolio was similar to that of the universe of currently outstanding U.S. Treasury securities (a "proportional" portfolio). In the second, the target portfolio contained only shorter-term securities with maturities of three years or less (a "shorter maturity" portfolio). The staff provided estimates of the capacity that the Committee would have under each scenario to provide economic stimulus through a maturity extension program (MEP). The staff also provided estimates of the extent to which term premiums embedded in longer-term Treasury yields might be affected under the two different scenarios. Based on the staff's standard modeling framework, all else equal, a move to the illustrative shorter maturity portfolio would put significant upward pressure on term premiums and imply that the path of the federal funds rate would need to be correspondingly lower to achieve the same macroeconomic outcomes as in the baseline outlook. However, the staff noted the uncertainties inherent in the analysis, including the difficulties in estimating the effects of changes in SOMA holdings on longer-term interest rates and the economy more generally.

The staff presentation also considered illustrative gradual and accelerated transition paths to each long-run target portfolio. Under the illustrative "gradual" transition, reinvestments of maturing Treasury holdings, principal payments on agency mortgage-backed securities (MBS), and purchases to accommodate growth in Federal Reserve liabilities would be directed to Treasury securities with maturities in the long-run target portfolio. Under the illustrative "accelerated" transition, the reinvestment of principal payments on agency MBS and purchases to accommodate growth in Federal Reserve liabilities would be directed to Treasury bills until the weighted average maturity (WAM) of the SOMA portfolio reached the WAM associated with the target portfolio. Depending on the combination of long-run target composition and the transition plan for arriving at that composition, the staff reported that, in the illustrative scenarios, it could take from 5 years to more than 15 years for the WAM of the SOMA portfolio to reach its long-run level.

In its Statement Regarding Monetary Policy Implementation and Balance Sheet Normalization, the Committee noted that it is prepared to adjust the size and composition of the balance sheet to achieve its macroeconomic objectives in a scenario in which the federal funds rate is constrained by the effective lower bound. Against this backdrop, participants discussed the benefits and costs of alternative long-run target portfolio compositions in supporting the use of balance sheet policies in such scenarios.

In their discussion of a shorter maturity portfolio, many participants noted the advantage of increased capacity for the Federal Reserve to conduct an MEP, which could be helpful in providing policy accommodation in a future economic downturn given the secular decline in neutral real interest rates and the associated reduced scope for lowering the federal funds rate in response to negative economic shocks. Several participants viewed an MEP as a useful initial option to address a future downturn in which the Committee judged that it needed to employ balance sheet actions to provide appropriate policy accommodation. Participants acknowledged the staff analysis suggesting that creating space to conduct an MEP by moving to a shorter maturity portfolio composition could boost term premiums and result in a lower path for the federal funds rate, reducing the capacity to ease financial conditions with adjustments in short-term rates. A number of participants noted, however, that the estimates of the effect of a move to a shorter-maturity portfolio composition on the long-run neutral federal funds rate are subject to substantial uncertainty and are based on a number of strong modeling assumptions. For example, estimates of term premium effects based on experience during the crisis could overstate the effects that would be associated with a gradual evolution of the composition of the SOMA portfolio. In addition, a shift in the composition of the SOMA portfolio could result in changes in the supply of securities that would tend to offset upward pressure on term premiums. Nonetheless, other participants expressed concern about the potential that a shorter maturity portfolio composition could result in a lower long-run neutral federal funds rate. Moreover, while a shorter maturity portfolio would provide substantial capacity to conduct an MEP, some participants raised questions about the effectiveness of MEPs as a policy tool relative to that of the federal funds rate or other unconventional policy tools. These participants noted that, in a situation in which it would be appropriate to employ unconventional policy tools, they likely would prefer to employ forward guidance or large-scale purchases of assets ahead of an MEP. In the view of these participants, the potential benefit of transitioning to a shorter maturity SOMA composition in terms of increased ability to conduct an MEP might not be worth the potential costs.

In their discussion of a proportional portfolio composition, participants observed that moving to this target SOMA composition would not be expected to have much effect on current staff estimates of term premiums and thus would likely not reduce the scope for lowering the target range for the federal funds rate target in response to adverse economic shocks. As a result, several participants judged the proportional target composition to be well aligned with the Committee's previous statements that changes in the target range for the federal funds rate are the primary means by which the Committee adjusts the stance of monetary policy. In addition, several participants noted that while the staff analysis suggested a proportional portfolio would not contain as much capacity to conduct an MEP as a shorter maturity portfolio, it still would contain meaningful capacity along these lines. Some participants noted that a proportional portfolio would also help maintain the traditional separation between the Federal Reserve's decisions regarding the composition of the SOMA portfolio and the maturity composition of Treasury debt held by the private sector. However, a number of participants judged that it would be desirable to structure the SOMA portfolio in a way that would provide more capacity to conduct an MEP than in the proportional portfolio. In addition, a couple of participants noted that a shorter maturity portfolio would maintain a narrow gap between the average maturity of the assets in the SOMA portfolio and the short average maturity of the Federal Reserve's primary liabilities.

Participants also discussed the financial stability implications that could be associated with alternative long-run target portfolio compositions. A couple of participants noted that a proportional portfolio could imply a relatively flat yield curve, which could result in greater incentives for "reach for yield" behavior in the financial system. That said, a few participants noted that a shorter maturity portfolio could affect financial stability risks by increasing the incentives for the private sector to issue short-term debt. A couple of participants judged that financial market functioning might be adversely affected if the holdings in the shorter maturity portfolio accounted for too large a share of total shorter maturity Treasury securities outstanding.

In discussing the transition to the desired long-run SOMA portfolio composition, several participants noted that a gradual pace of transition could help avoid unwanted effects on financial conditions. However, participants observed that the gradual transition paths described in the staff presentation would take many years to complete. Against this backdrop, a few participants discussed the possibility of following some type of accelerated transition, perhaps including sales of the SOMA's residual holdings of agency MBS. In addition, several participants suggested that the Committee could communicate its plans about the SOMA portfolio composition in terms of a desired change over an intermediate horizon rather than a specific long-run target.

Several participants expressed the view that a decision regarding the long-run composition of the portfolio would not need to be made for some time, and a couple of participants highlighted the importance of making such a decision in the context of the ongoing review of the Federal Reserve's monetary policy strategies, tools, and communications practices. Some participants noted the importance of developing an effective communication plan to describe the Committee's decisions regarding the long-run target composition for the SOMA portfolio and the transition to that target composition.