The information available for the April 30–May 1 meeting indicated that labor market conditions remained strong and that real gross domestic product (GDP) increased at a solid rate in the first quarter even as household spending and business fixed investment rose more slowly in the first quarter than in the fourth quarter of last year. Consumer price inflation, as measured by the 12-month percentage change in the price index for personal consumption expenditures (PCE), declined, on net, in recent months and was somewhat below 2 percent in March. Survey-based measures of longer-run inflation expectations were little changed.

Total nonfarm payroll employment recorded a strong gain in March, and the unemployment rate held steady at 3.8 percent. The labor force participation rate declined a little in March after having risen, on balance, in the previous few months, and the employment-to-population ratio edged down. The unemployment rates for African Americans, Asians, and Hispanics in March were at or below their levels at the end of the previous economic expansion, though persistent differentials in unemployment rates across groups remained. The share of workers employed part time for economic reasons edged up in March but was still below the lows reached in late 2007. The rate of private-sector job openings in February declined slightly from the elevated level that prevailed for much of the past year, while the rate of quits was unchanged at a high level; the four-week moving average of initial claims for unemployment insurance benefits through mid-April was near historically low levels. Average hourly earnings for all employees rose 3.2 percent over the 12 months ending in March, a somewhat faster pace than a year earlier. The employment cost index for private-sector workers increased 2.8 percent over the 12 months ending in March, the same as a year earlier.

Industrial production edged down in March and for the first quarter overall. Manufacturing output declined moderately in the first quarter, primarily reflecting a decrease in the output of motor vehicles and parts; outside of motor vehicles and parts, manufacturing production was little changed. Mining output declined, on net, over the three months ending in March. Automakers' assembly schedules suggested that the production of light motor vehicles would move up in the near term, and new orders indexes from national and regional manufacturing surveys pointed to modest gains in overall factory output in the coming months. However, industry news indicated that aircraft production would slow in the second quarter.

Consumer expenditures slowed in the first quarter, but monthly data suggested some improvement toward the end of the quarter. Real PCE increased at a robust pace in March after having been unchanged in February, perhaps partly reflecting a delay in tax refunds from February into March that was due, in part, to the partial government shutdown. Similarly, sales of light motor vehicles rose sharply in March, although the average pace of sales in the first quarter was slower than in the fourth quarter. Key factors that influence consumer spending—including a low unemployment rate, ongoing gains in real labor compensation, and still elevated measures of households' net worth—were supportive of solid near-term gains in consumer expenditures. In addition, consumer sentiment, as measured by the University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers, edged down in April but was still upbeat. The staff reported preliminary analysis of the levels of and trends in average household wealth by racial and ethnic groups as measured by the Federal Reserve Board's Distributional Financial Accounts initiative.

Real residential investment declined at a slower rate in the first quarter than it did over the course of 2018. After an appreciable uptick in January, starts of new single-family homes fell in February and were little changed in March. Meanwhile, starts of multifamily units rose in February and stayed at that level in March. Building permit issuance for new single-family homes—which tends to be a good indicator of the underlying trend in construction of such homes—declined a little in February and March. Sales of both new and existing homes increased, on net, over the February-and-March period.

Growth in real private expenditures for business equipment and intellectual property slowed in the first quarter, reflecting both a slower increase in transportation equipment spending after a strong fourth-quarter gain and a decline in spending on other types of equipment outside of high tech. Nominal shipments of nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft were little changed, on net, in February and March, but they rose for the quarter as a whole. Forward-looking indicators of business equipment spending pointed to sluggish increases in the near term. Orders for nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft increased noticeably in March but were only a little above the level of shipments, and readings on business sentiment improved a bit but were still softer than last year. Real business expenditures for nonresidential structures outside of the drilling and mining sector increased somewhat in the first quarter after having declined for several quarters. Investment in drilling and mining structures moved down in the first quarter, and the number of crude oil and natural gas rigs in operation—an indicator of business spending for structures in the drilling and mining sector—declined, on net, from mid-March through late April.

Total real government purchases increased in the first quarter. Real purchases by the federal government were unchanged, as a relatively strong increase in defense purchases was offset by a decline in nondefense purchases stemming from the effects of the partial federal government shutdown. Real purchases by state and local governments increased briskly; payrolls of those governments expanded solidly in the first quarter, and nominal state and local construction spending rose markedly.

The nominal U.S. international trade deficit narrowed significantly in January and a touch more in February. After declining in December, the value of U.S. exports rose in January and February. However, the average dollar value of exports in the first two months of the year was only slightly above its fourth-quarter value. Imports fell in January before edging a touch higher in February, with the average of the two months declining relative to the fourth quarter. The Bureau of Economic Analysis estimated that the contribution of net exports to real GDP growth in the first quarter was about 1 percentage point.

Total U.S. consumer prices, as measured by the PCE price index, increased 1.5 percent over the 12 months ending in March. This increase was somewhat slower than a year earlier, as core PCE price inflation (which excludes changes in consumer food and energy prices) slowed to 1.6 percent, consumer food price inflation was a bit below core inflation, and consumer energy prices were little changed. The trimmed-mean measure of PCE price inflation constructed by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas was 2.0 percent over that 12‑month period. The consumer price index (CPI) rose 1.9 percent over the 12 months ending in March, while core CPI inflation was 2.0 percent. Recent readings on survey-based measures of longer-run inflation expectations—including those from the Michigan survey, the Survey of Professional Forecasters, and the Desk's Survey of Primary Dealers and Survey of Market Participants—were little changed.

Foreign economic growth in the first quarter was mixed. Among the emerging market economies (EMEs), real GDP contracted in South Korea and Mexico, but activity in China strengthened, supported by tax cuts and the easing of credit conditions. In the advanced foreign economies, economic indicators were downbeat in Japan but elsewhere pointed to some improvement from a weak fourth quarter; GDP growth rebounded in the euro area and also appeared to pick up in Canada and the United Kingdom. Foreign inflation slowed further early this year, partly reflecting lower retail energy prices.