Investor sentiment continued to improve over the intermeeting period. Broad equity price indexes rose notably and corporate bond spreads narrowed amid a decline in market volatility, and financing conditions for businesses and households also eased. Market participants cited more accommodative than expected monetary policy communications coupled with strong U.S. and Chinese data releases and positive sentiment about trade negotiations between the United States and China as factors that contributed to these developments.

Communications following the March FOMC meeting were generally viewed by investors as having a more accommodative tone than expected. The market-implied path for the federal funds rate shifted downward modestly, on net, resulting in a flat to slightly downward sloping expected path of the policy rate over the next few FOMC meetings. Market participants assigned greater probability to a lower target range of the federal funds rate than to a higher one beyond the next few meetings.

Yields on nominal Treasury securities declined modestly, on net, during the intermeeting period. Investors cited larger-than-expected downward revisions in FOMC participants' assessments of the future path of the policy rate in the Summary of Economic Projections, recent communications suggesting a patient approach to monetary policy, and weaker-than-expected euro-area data releases early in the period among factors that contributed to this decrease. These factors reportedly outweighed stronger-than-expected economic data releases for the United States and China and optimism related to trade negotiations between the two countries later in the period. Measures of inflation compensation based on Treasury Inflation Protected Securities were changed little, on net, and remained below their early fall 2018 levels.

Major U.S. equity price indexes increased over the intermeeting period, with the S&P 500 equity index returning to the levels it reached before its decline in the last quarter of 2018. Following the March FOMC meeting, bank stock prices declined, reportedly on concerns about the potential effects of a flat or inverted yield curve on bank profits; bank stocks subsequently retraced this decline partly in response to strong first-quarter earnings at some of the largest U.S. banks, ending the period a bit higher, on net. Option-implied volatility on the S&P 500—the VIX—decreased to a low level last seen in September 2018. Yields on corporate bonds continued to decline and spreads over yields of comparable-maturity Treasury securities narrowed.

Conditions in short-term funding markets remained stable during the intermeeting period. The EFFR rose to 5 basis points above the IOER rate after the federal income tax deadline on April 15. While a similar dynamic occurred around previous tax dates, the magnitude of the change was larger than in previous years. Spreads on commercial paper and negotiable certificates of deposits changed little across the maturity spectrum.

Global sovereign yields declined along with U.S. Treasury yields following the March FOMC meeting. Foreign equity prices increased, on balance, amid optimism around trade negotiations between the United States and China, stronger-than-expected Chinese data, and accommodative communications from some foreign central banks. Pronounced political and policy uncertainties led to a significant tightening of financial conditions in Turkey, Argentina, and, to a lesser extent, Brazil, but spillovers to other EMEs were limited, and EME credit spreads were generally little changed on net.

The broad dollar index increased modestly, supported by the strength of U.S. economic data relative to foreign data and the accommodative tone from foreign central banks. The British pound declined over the intermeeting period amid protracted discussions ahead of the original Brexit deadline, which was extended to October 31.

Financing conditions for nonfinancial businesses remained generally accommodative during the intermeeting period. Gross issuance of corporate bonds was strong against a backdrop of narrower corporate spreads and improved risk sentiment. Issuance of institutional leveraged loans increased, but refinancing volumes were low and loans spreads remained somewhat elevated. Respondents to the April 2019 Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices (SLOOS) reported easing some key terms for commercial and industrial (C&I) loans to large and middle-market firms. For instance, banks reported narrowing loan rate spreads, easing loan covenants, and increasing the maximum size and reducing the costs of credit lines to these firms. C&I loans on banks' balance sheets grew at a robust pace in the first quarter of 2019. Gross equity issuance edged up later in the period and the volume of corporate bond upgrades slightly outpaced that of downgrades, suggesting that credit quality of nonfinancial corporations, on balance, improved.

Financing conditions for the commercial real estate (CRE) sector remained accommodative, and issuance of agency and non-agency commercial mortgage backed securities grew steadily. CRE loans on banks' balance sheets continued to grow in the first quarter, albeit at a slower pace than in previous quarters. Banks in the April SLOOS reported weaker demand across all major types of CRE loans. However, they also reported tightening lending standards for these loans.

Financing conditions in the residential mortgage market also remained supportive over the intermeeting period. Home mortgage rates decreased about 5 basis points, to levels comparable with 2017. Consistent with lower mortgage rates, home-purchase mortgage originations increased, reversing a yearlong decline.

Consumer credit conditions remained broadly supportive of growth in household spending, with all categories of consumer loans recording steady growth in the first quarter. According to the April SLOOS, commercial banks left lending standards for auto loans and other consumer loans unchanged in the first quarter. However, credit card interest rates rose and standards reportedly tightened for some borrowers.

The staff provided an update on its assessments of potential risks to financial stability. The staff judged asset valuation pressures in equity and corporate debt markets to have increased significantly this year, though not quite to the elevated levels that prevailed for much of last year. The staff also reported that in the leveraged loan market risk spreads had narrowed and nonprice terms had loosened further. The build-up in overall nonfinancial business debt to levels close to historical highs relative to GDP was viewed as a factor that could amplify adverse shocks to the business sector and the economy more broadly. The staff continued to judge risks associated with household-sector debt as moderate. Both the risks associated with financial leverage and the vulnerabilities related to maturity transformation were viewed as being low, as they have been for some time. The staff also noted that the sustained growth of lending by banks to nonbank financial firms represented an increase in financial interconnectedness.