The market-implied path for the federal funds rate declined notably over the intermeeting period. Similarly, options on interest rate futures suggested that market participants were placing higher odds on greater policy easing by early 2025 than they had just before the July FOMC meeting. Consistent with the downward shift in the implied policy rate path, nominal Treasury yields declined significantly, on net, with the most pronounced decreases at shorter horizons driven by reductions in both inflation compensation and real Treasury yields. Market-based measures of interest rate uncertainty in the near term rose notably, reportedly reflecting in part increased concerns among investors about downside risks to economic activity.

Broad stock price indexes increased, on net, despite a sizable but temporary drop in early August. Yield spreads on investment- and speculative-grade corporate bonds were little changed, on net, and remained in the bottom quintile of their respective historical distributions. The one-month option-implied volatility on the S&P 500 index ended the period roughly unchanged, on net, after a large but temporary spike in early August.

Overnight secured rates were largely unchanged, and conditions in U.S. short-term funding markets remained stable. Average usage of the ON RRP facility declined as net Treasury bill issuance increased, providing a more attractive alternative asset for money market funds.

Market-based measures of the expected paths of policy rates as well as sovereign bond yields in most AFEs fell notably, largely in response to declines in U.S. interest rates. The broad dollar index declined, with the dollar depreciating significantly against AFE currencies amid a narrowing in interest rate differentials between the U.S. economy and AFEs. Financial markets were volatile early in the intermeeting period following the weaker-than-expected U.S. employment report and the policy rate increase by the BOJ, which led to the unwinding of some speculative trading positions. However, declines in equities mostly retraced over the following weeks, and moves in foreign risky asset prices were mixed over the intermeeting period.

In domestic credit markets, borrowing costs remained elevated despite modest declines in most credit segments. Rates on 30-year conforming residential mortgages and yields on agency mortgage-backed securities (MBS) declined, on net, but continued to be elevated. Interest rates on both new credit card offers and new auto loans were little changed and remained at elevated levels. Interest rates for newly originated commercial real estate (CRE) loans on banks' books increased. Yields on an array of fixed-income securities, including investment- and speculative-grade corporate bonds and commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS), moved lower, generally following decreases in benchmark Treasury yields.

Financing through capital markets and nonbank lenders was readily accessible for public corporations and for large and middle-market private corporations, and credit availability for leveraged loan borrowers remained solid. For smaller firms, however, credit availability remained moderately tight. Commercial and industrial loan balances at banks were little changed on net. Credit remained generally accessible to most CRE borrowers. CRE loans at banks continued to decelerate in July and were unchanged in August. Non-agency CMBS issuance was robust in August, while agency CMBS issuance slipped to a bit below its post-pandemic average.

Credit remained available for most consumers, though credit growth showed signs of moderating. Auto lending continued to slow, while balances on credit cards increased moderately in July and August on average. In the residential mortgage market, access to credit was little changed overall and continued to be sensitive to borrowers' credit risk attributes.

Credit quality continued to be solid for large and midsize firms, home mortgage borrowers, and municipalities but kept deteriorating in other sectors. The credit quality of nonfinancial firms borrowing in the corporate bond and leveraged loan markets remained stable. Delinquency rates on loans to small businesses remained slightly above pre-pandemic levels. Credit quality in the CRE market deteriorated further, with the average delinquency rate for loans in CMBS and the share of nonperforming CRE loans at banks both rising further. Regarding household credit quality, delinquency rates on most residential mortgages remained near pre-pandemic lows. Though consumer loan delinquency rates remained above pre-pandemic levels, the pace of increases had slowed. Delinquency rates for credit cards rose moderately in the second quarter, while they were largely flat for auto loans.