The information available at the time of the meeting indicated that real gross domestic product (GDP) had expanded solidly so far this year. The pace of job gains continued to moderate since the beginning of the year, and the unemployment rate had moved up but remained low. Consumer price inflation was well below its year-earlier rate but remained somewhat elevated.

Consumer price inflation—as measured by the 12-month change in the price index for personal consumption expenditures (PCE)—was lower in July than it had been in March, which had followed some high month-over-month changes in the beginning of the year. Monthly changes in PCE prices since April had been smaller than those seen in the first three months of the year. On a 12-month basis, total PCE price inflation was 2.5 percent in July, and core PCE price inflation—which excludes changes in energy prices and many consumer food prices—was 2.6 percent. In August, the 12-month change in the consumer price index (CPI) was 2.5 percent, and core CPI inflation was 3.2 percent; both measures were well below their rates from a year ago. The staff estimated, given both the CPI and producer price index data, that total PCE price inflation would be 2.2 percent over the 12 months ending in August and that core PCE price inflation would be 2.7 percent.

Recent data suggested that labor market conditions had eased further but remained solid. Over July and August, average monthly nonfarm payroll gains were less than their average second-quarter pace, the unemployment rate edged up to 4.2 percent, the labor force participation rate ticked up, and the employment-to-population ratio ticked down. The unemployment rate for African Americans moved down, while the rate for Hispanics rose, and both rates were above those for Asians and for Whites. The ratio of job vacancies to unemployment edged down to 1.1 in August, a bit below its level just before the pandemic. Job layoffs, as measured by initial claims for unemployment insurance benefits, remained low through August. Measures of nominal labor compensation continued to decelerate. Average hourly earnings for all employees rose 3.8 percent over the 12 months ending in August, and the four-quarter change in business-sector compensation per hour was 3.1 percent in the second quarter. Both measures were well below their pace from a year earlier.

Real GDP rose solidly, on balance, over the first half of the year. Real private domestic final purchases (PDFP)—which comprises PCE and private fixed investment and which often provides a better signal than GDP of underlying economic momentum—posted a stronger first-half increase than GDP, and PDFP growth over the first half was only moderately slower than last year. Recent indicators for third-quarter GDP and PDFP suggested that economic growth was continuing at a solid pace, particularly for PCE and business investment in equipment and intangibles.

After growing at a tepid pace in the second quarter, real exports of goods moved down in July, led by declines in exports of autos and industrial supplies. By contrast, real imports of goods, especially of capital goods, continued to grow at a robust pace in July.

Real GDP growth in foreign economies stepped down in the second quarter, and recent economic indicators suggested economic growth abroad remained subdued. Although services activity and high-tech manufacturing had been relatively robust, overall manufacturing activity remained weak, in part due to restrictive monetary policies. Weakness in manufacturing was particularly pronounced in Canada, Germany, and Mexico. In China, indicators of domestic demand remained weak.

Inflation in economies abroad continued to abate, on net, though developments were mixed. In the AFEs excluding Japan, 12-month headline inflation ticked down but remained above target levels due to still-high services inflation. In the emerging market economies, inflation moved sideways, with some Latin American economies still experiencing upward inflation pressures from food prices. The BOE cut its policy rate for the first time in the current cycle, while the BOC, the ECB, and the Bank of Mexico eased policy further, in part citing progress toward achieving their inflation targets. By contrast, the BOJ continued to remove monetary accommodation.