The manager turned first to a review of developments in financial markets. Nominal Treasury yields declined notably over the period, driven by weaker-than-expected data releases—especially the July employment report in early August—and policy communications that were seen as affirming expectations that a reduction in policy restraint would begin at this meeting. The decline in nominal yields over the period was primarily attributable to lower expected real yields, but measures of inflation compensation declined as well. Broad equity prices finished the period modestly higher, while credit spreads had come off the very tight levels seen earlier this year but were still narrow by historical standards. Overall, risky asset prices were compatible with continued economic expansion.

The manager also discussed the brief episode of elevated market volatility in early August. That episode saw some large moves in U.S. and foreign equity indexes, equity-implied volatilities, the dollar–yen exchange rate, and Treasury yields. These sharp moves appeared to be the result of a rapid unwinding of some speculative trading positions induced by unrelated events—such as the unexpectedly inflation-focused communications from the Bank of Japan (BOJ) in late July and the weaker-than-expected U.S. employment report in early August—and amplified by technical and liquidity factors. All told, the unwinding process was contained, and market functioning recovered relatively quickly.

Turning to policy expectations, the manager noted that the market-implied policy rate path shifted down materially. At the time of the September meeting, the modal path for the federal funds rate implied by options prices was consistent with about 100 basis points of cuts through year-end, compared with around 50 basis points at the time of the July meeting. The average path for the federal funds rate obtained from futures prices also shifted notably lower and remained below the options-implied modal path, likely reflecting investors' perception that risks were tilted toward more rather than fewer cuts. In the Open Market Desk's Survey of Primary Dealers and Survey of Market Participants, most respondents had a modal expectation of a 25 basis point cut at this meeting, though the manager also noted that, since the time of the surveys—about a week earlier—the probability of a 50 basis point cut at the September meeting implied by futures prices had increased and exceeded the implied probability of a 25 basis point cut. The median respondent's modal path for the federal funds rate shifted down notably over the next two years, in line with the options-implied modal path, and was unchanged thereafter. Balance sheet expectations in the surveys were little changed from July. Most survey respondents did not appear to be concerned about an economic downturn in either the near or medium term; the median dealer's most likely path of the unemployment rate for the next few years was only modestly higher than that in the July survey and was roughly stable around current levels.

In international developments, many central banks in advanced foreign economies (AFEs) had begun or continued to lower policy rates during the intermeeting period, with the Bank of England (BOE) deciding to initiate its rate-cutting cycle with a 25 basis point reduction and the European Central Bank (ECB) and the Bank of Canada (BOC) delivering their second and third 25 basis point cut, respectively. The market-implied expectations for year-end policy rates fell over the period for most central banks in AFEs, although by a smaller amount than they did for the Federal Reserve, contributing to a modest decline in the trade-weighted U.S. dollar index.

The manager then turned to money markets and Desk operations. Unsecured overnight rates remained stable over the intermeeting period. In secured funding markets, rates on overnight repurchase agreements (repo) were higher than a few months earlier amid large issuance of Treasury securities and elevated demand for securities financing but were little changed, on net, over the period. The manager discussed the interconnections between the repo and federal funds markets, underscoring the importance of monitoring a range of indicators to assess reserve conditions and the state of money markets. Looking at a range of such indicators, the manager concluded that reserves appeared to remain abundant.

Usage of the overnight reverse repurchase agreement (ON RRP) facility declined about $100 billion over the intermeeting period, helped by an increase in the net supply of Treasury bills. With net bill supply expected to decrease as a result of the September tax date before increasing again, the staff assessed that the decline in ON RRP usage might slow over the coming intermeeting period before resuming later this year. The manager also added that, with the concentration of ON RRP usage in a small number of fund complexes, there was an increased risk that idiosyncratic allocation decisions could have an outsized effect on aggregate ON RRP volumes.

By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Desk's domestic transactions over the intermeeting period. There were no intervention operations in foreign currencies for the System's account during the intermeeting period.