Over the intermeeting period, generally robust economic data led to moderate increases in the market- implied path of the federal funds rate and yields on shorter-term Treasury securities. Yields on medium- and longer-term nominal Treasury securities rose more substantially, mainly reflecting higher term premiums and higher real yields. Stock prices declined somewhat, but spreads on investment- and speculative-grade corporate bonds were little changed. Financing conditions tightened somewhat, and borrowing costs increased moderately.

Market participants pointed to a range of factors that may have contributed to the increase in longer-term forward rates, including higher term premiums and upward revisions to market views of the likely path of Treasury debt over time. Real yields increased almost as much as or a little more than nominal yields, leaving implied measures of inflation compensation modestly changed. The market-implied path for the federal funds rate in the near term was up slightly since the July FOMC meeting, and the expected path further out, implied by overnight index swap contracts, rose moderately.

Broad equity price indexes declined somewhat, and the one-month option-implied volatility on the S&P 500 index edged up slightly, on net, and stood near the 25th percentile of its historical distribution.

Conditions in domestic short-term funding markets remained stable over the intermeeting period. Both prime and government money market funds experienced moderate inflows since the July FOMC meeting. Against a backdrop of heavy issuance of Treasury bills and the modest associated upward pressure on Treasury bill yields, take-up in the ON RRP facility continued to decline over the period and fell below $1.5 trillion late in the period.

Over the intermeeting period, the dollar appreciated, as U.S. economic data came in stronger than expected, while foreign data suggested slowing economic growth abroad. Long-term yields in AFEs ended the period higher, reflecting spillovers from higher U.S. yields and, to a lesser extent, the increase in Japanese yields following the decision by the Bank of Japan to effectively widen its target range for the 10-year Japanese yield. Global equity prices declined moderately, reflecting higher long-term yields and increased concerns about the foreign economic outlook. Bond and equity funds focused on emerging markets saw moderate outflows.

In domestic credit markets, borrowing rates for businesses, households, and municipalities increased moderately over the intermeeting period, mostly reflecting a pass-through of higher yields on longer-maturity Treasury securities to those borrowing rates. Interest rates on newly originated bank loans to businesses and households increased over the second quarter, interest rates on credit card offers increased in July, and interest rates on auto loans increased in July and August.

Bank credit conditions appeared to tighten somewhat over the intermeeting period, but credit to businesses and households remained generally accessible. Commercial and industrial loan balances contracted, but outstanding commercial real estate (CRE) loans increased from July through late August, though at a slower pace than earlier in the year. Within the category of CRE loans, nonfarm nonresidential loans contracted over the summer for the first time since March 2022. Bank funding conditions were generally stable. Core deposits declined but were offset by inflows of large time deposits.

Credit was available for most consumers. Credit card balances grew in the second quarter through late August. For residential real estate borrowers, credit availability was little changed. Credit conditions for small businesses were also fairly stable. The PayNet Small Business Lending Index indicated that loan originations edged up in July and stood above the median of its pre-pandemic level. Credit was generally accessible through capital markets, although issuance was subdued. Issuance of nonfinancial investment- and speculative-grade bonds was muted in July but picked up modestly in August, and issuance of municipal bonds was weak in July. New issuance of leveraged loans was subdued in July, and issuance of agency and non-agency commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS) was soft in July and August.

Credit quality deteriorated a little further across many sectors in recent months but remained broadly solid. In the CRE sector, delinquency rates on nonfarm nonresidential CRE bank loans rose over the second quarter, while delinquency rates on construction, land development, and multifamily loans were roughly unchanged. Delinquency rates of loans in CMBS pools increased, driven by the office and retail sectors. The office delinquency rate rose more than 2 percentage points since January but remained below its pre-pandemic average. The delinquency rate for small business loans ticked up in June and July. Delinquency rates for credit cards and auto loans increased further in the second quarter and stood a bit above their average levels in the years leading up to the pandemic. The fraction of potential borrowers with a prime credit score expanded through the second quarter, moving further above its pre-pandemic level. The trailing default rates for investment- and speculative-grade corporate bonds increased in July but remained at historically low levels. The trailing default rate for leveraged loans was little changed, on net, but downgrades of leveraged loans surpassed upgrades in July and August.

In contrast to many other types of loans, the payment performance of home mortgages improved. Delinquency rates of Federal Housing Administration and Department of Veterans Affairs loans in July were lower than levels seen earlier this year, and delinquency rates of conventional loans remained at historical lows. Credit quality was also strong for municipal borrowers.