Domestic financial market conditions remained generally accommodative over the intermeeting period. U.S. equity prices increased, longer-term Treasury yields declined, and the dollar depreciated. Investors' interpretations of FOMC communications, market perceptions of a reduced likelihood of U.S. fiscal policy changes, and heightened geopolitical risks all reportedly placed downward pressure on longer-term yields. At the same time, financing conditions for households and nonfinancial businesses continued to provide support for growth in spending and investment.

FOMC communications over the intermeeting period reportedly were interpreted as indicating a somewhat slower pace of increases in the target range for the federal funds rate than previously expected. Market participants were attentive to the Committee's assessment of recent below-expectations inflation data and the acknowledgment in the July FOMC minutes that inflation might continue to run below the Committee's 2 percent objective for longer than anticipated. Investors also took note of the Committee's guidance in the July FOMC statement that it expected to begin implementing its balance sheet normalization program relatively soon. By the end of the intermeeting period, market participants appeared nearly certain that the Committee would announce the implementation of its balance sheet normalization plan at the September meeting. The probability of an increase in the target range for the federal funds rate occurring at either the September or the November meeting, as implied by quotes on federal funds futures contracts, fell to essentially zero, while the probability of a 25 basis point increase by the end of the year stood near 50 percent and was little changed since the July meeting. Quotes on overnight index swaps (OIS) pointed to a slight flattening of the expected path of the federal funds rate through 2020, with a staff model attributing most of the declines in OIS rates to lower expected rates.

Yields on intermediate- and longer-term nominal Treasury securities decreased modestly over the intermeeting period. Treasury yields fell following the July FOMC meeting, reflecting the response of investors to the postmeeting statement, and then dropped further amid rising geopolitical tensions related to North Korea and market perceptions of reduced prospects for enactment of a fiscal stimulus program. Economic data releases appeared to have little net effect on Treasury yields over most of the period. A staff term structure model attributed about half of the decline in the 10-year Treasury yield to a decrease in the average expected future short-term rate and the remaining half to a lower term premium. Measures of inflation compensation over the next 5 years rose modestly, on net, partly in response to the release of higher-than-expected CPI data for August, while inflation compensation 5 to 10 years ahead was little changed.

Broad U.S. equity price indexes increased over the intermeeting period. One-month-ahead option-implied volatility of the S&P 500 index--the VIX--remained at historically low levels despite brief spikes associated with increased investor concerns about geopolitical tensions and political uncertainties. Over the intermeeting period, spreads of yields on investment- and speculative-grade nonfinancial corporate bonds over those on comparable-maturity Treasury securities widened a bit.

Short-dated Treasury bill yields were elevated for a time, reflecting concerns about potential delays in raising the federal debt limit. However, following news of an agreement to extend the debt ceiling by three months, rates on Treasury bills maturing in October retraced their entire increase from early in the intermeeting period. Conditions in other domestic short-term funding markets were stable. Yields on a broad set of money market instruments remained in the ranges observed since the FOMC increased the target range for the federal funds rate in June. Daily take-up at the System's overnight reverse repurchase agreement facility ran somewhat lower than in the previous intermeeting period.

Since the July FOMC meeting, asset price movements in global financial markets were driven by geopolitical tensions in the Korean peninsula, improving economic prospects abroad, communications from AFE central banks, and changes in prospects for fiscal policy legislation in the United States. The broad index of the foreign exchange value of the dollar decreased 1-1/2 percent; the decline was widespread, led by the strengthening of the euro and the Chinese renminbi. The Canadian dollar appreciated following a rate hike by the Bank of Canada at its September meeting that came sooner than market participants expected. Similarly, sterling appreciated after the Bank of England signaled a potential rate hike in the coming months. Against this backdrop, longer-term yields rose slightly in Canada and the United Kingdom. In contrast, longer-term German yields declined moderately, despite better-than-expected economic data releases for the euro area, as market expectations shifted toward a more gradual withdrawal of stimulus by the European Central Bank (ECB) even though the ECB kept its policy stance unchanged.

Despite generally better-than-expected earnings releases, AFE equity prices were mixed over the period, with bank stocks underperforming broader indexes. Outside South Korea, most emerging market asset prices were little affected by the recent escalation of geopolitical concerns. Net flows to emerging market mutual funds briefly turned negative in early August, but they quickly returned to near the high levels seen since early this year. Yield spreads on EME sovereign bonds edged down.

Financing conditions for U.S. nonfinancial businesses continued to be accommodative. Issuance of corporate debt and equity was strong in July and August. Gross issuance of institutional leveraged loans continued its robust pace in June but slowed notably in July, as is typical during the summer. Meanwhile, the growth of commercial and industrial (C&I) loans on banks' books ticked up in July and August compared with its pace over the first half of the year; however, C&I loan growth from the fourth quarter of last year through August remained significantly lower than over recent years.

Gross issuance of municipal bonds was strong in August, and spreads of yields on municipal bonds over those on comparable-maturity Treasury securities increased a bit over the intermeeting period. The credit quality of state and local governments improved overall, as the number of ratings upgrades notably outpaced the number of downgrades in August.

The growth of commercial real estate (CRE) loans on banks' books continued to moderate in July and August, reflecting a slowdown in lending both for nonfarm nonresidential units and for construction and land development; nonetheless, CRE financing appeared to remain broadly available. Issuance of commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS) so far this year was similar to that in the same period a year earlier. Spreads on CMBS over Treasury securities narrowed a little over the intermeeting period and were near the bottom of their ranges of the past several years. Delinquency rates on loans in CMBS pools declined slightly but remained elevated for loans that were originated before the financial crisis.

Interest rates on 30-year fixed-rate residential mortgages moved lower over the intermeeting period, in line with comparable-maturity Treasury yields. Growth in mortgage lending for home purchases picked up in July and August compared with its pace over the second quarter. However, credit conditions remained tight for borrowers with low credit scores or hard-to-document incomes.

Consumer credit continued to be readily available for most borrowers, and overall loan balances rose at a moderate pace in the second quarter, reflecting further expansions in credit card, auto, and student loan balances. Issuance of asset-backed securities remained robust over the year to date and outpaced that of the previous year, providing support for consumer lending. However, standards and terms on auto and credit card loans were tighter for subprime borrowers, likely in response to rising delinquencies on such loans. Subprime auto loan balances have declined so far this year, partly reflecting the tighter lending standards, and the average credit score of all borrowers who obtained an auto loan in the second quarter remained near the upper end of its range of the past few years.