At its meeting on November 6, 2001, the Committee adopted a directive that called for implementing conditions in reserve markets consistent with a decrease of 50 basis points in the intended level of the federal funds rate, to about 2 percent. The members referred to the heightened degree of uncertainty and risk aversion following the terrorist attacks that was having a significant effect on business and household spending, and they noted that the substantial easing of monetary policy that had been put in place this year had not shown through fully to long-term interest rates, equity prices, bank lending rates, and the foreign exchange value of the dollar. In these circumstances, with price inflation relatively low and pressures on prices and resources likely to ebb further, the members concluded that further monetary stimulus would provide some added insurance against a more extended contraction of the economy at little risk of a pickup in inflation. The members also believed that the balance of risks remained weighted toward conditions that could generate economic weakness in the foreseeable future.

Federal funds traded at rates close to the Committee's target level of 2 percent during the intermeeting period. Against the background of better-than-expected incoming economic data and of favorable news on military operations in Afghanistan, short-term interest rates declined a little over the intermeeting interval while intermediate- and long-term Treasury rates rose substantially. With market concerns about the economic outlook diminishing, yields on investment-grade corporate debt securities increased considerably less than those on comparable-maturity Treasuries, rates on speculative-grade bonds fell sharply, and major indexes of equity prices moved significantly higher.

In foreign exchange markets, the trade-weighted value of the dollar in terms of the major foreign currencies increased slightly on balance over the intermeeting period; the release of better-than-expected U.S. economic data lifted the dollar early in the intermeeting period, but subsequent data releases led to some erosion of that gain. Abroad, central bank policy rates were lowered in the euro area, England, and Canada in response to indications of flagging economic activity. In Japan, disappointing economic news and comments by Japanese officials about possible intervention to weaken the yen contributed to a decline in that currency. Meanwhile, the dollar was about unchanged on balance in terms of an index of the currencies of other important trading partners. The Mexican peso changed little on balance, the Brazilian real firmed despite the deepening problems of Argentina, and the Korean won rose against the background of incoming data that suggested the persistence of resilient domestic demand.

M2 growth in November was robust though well below the average pace of the two previous months. Liquid deposits continued to increase rapidly, reflecting the sharp drop in market interest rates this year, but inflows to retail money funds slowed as the economic outlook improved and the equity markets rallied. M3 expansion remained at a very high rate in November, bolstered by the growth of M2 and heavy bank acquisitions of nondeposit liabilities. The debt of domestic nonfinancial sectors grew at a moderate pace on balance through October.