The information reviewed at this meeting indicated that economic activity had continued to decline into the fourth quarter, although some very recent data suggested that the rate of decline might be moderating. Labor market conditions had worsened further, especially in manufacturing and related industries, and industrial production had fallen in October and probably also in November. However, purchases of motor vehicles were very strong in both months, and other household and business spending seemed to have recovered somewhat from the sharp September decline. Energy prices were moderating noticeably in response to lower worldwide demand, and core price inflation remained subdued.

The labor market deteriorated substantially in October and November. Nonfarm payroll employment fell significantly in both months, with the largest job losses occurring in manufacturing, help supply services, and retail trade. Steep cuts in employment also occurred in industries directly affected by the September attacks, notably transportation, lodging, and tourism. Among the few industries that had not been adversely affected were health services, which continued to add workers, and finance, insurance, and real estate, which maintained stable employment on balance. The heavy job losses boosted the unemployment rate to 5.7 percent in November.

Industrial production fell sharply further in October, and the cuts continued to be spread widely across groups and industries, reflecting weak demand for business equipment, efforts by firms to pare inventories, and foreign competition. Motor vehicle assemblies slowed for a third straight month from the relatively high levels attained in the spring and early summer, and the output of high-technology goods remained on a steep downward trajectory, though a few positive signs had begun to emerge in the semiconductor and computer industries. The rate of utilization of total manufacturing capacity contracted further in October and was at a level substantially below the trough reached in the 1990-91 recession.

Personal consumption expenditures are estimated to have rebounded in October, following the large September decline, and were slightly above the third-quarter average. Purchases of motor vehicles surged in response to aggressive zero-rate financing packages offered by automakers, while spending on other goods made a partial recovery from the September drop. Outlays on consumer services strengthened in October, but they remained below their third-quarter average.

Residential building activity softened somewhat further in October, but in an environment of very low mortgage rates, homebuilding remained at a relatively high level despite the weak labor market and sluggish growth in personal income. Demand for single-family housing had held up relatively well. Sales of new single-family homes changed little in October and had been relatively steady since May, while sales of existing homes partially retraced the sharp drop-off that occurred in September.

Recent information suggested that the downward trend in business spending on durable equipment and software might be moderating somewhat. After plunging during the spring and summer, orders and shipments of nondefense capital goods turned up in October. Of particular note, both orders and shipments of office and computing equipment increased in October after having declined sharply for most of the year. For durable equipment in general, shipments had exceeded new orders since the first of the year, and as a result the backlog of unfilled orders was now below its level of a year ago. Nonresidential construction also had been weak during the spring and summer, reflecting an upward trend in vacancy rates and uncertainties regarding rents and property values. Although spending on industrial structures dropped further in October, outlays for office buildings and other commercial structures picked up noticeably.

The book value of business inventories fell steeply in the third quarter. The bulk of the reduction occurred in the manufacturing sector, but the sharp drop in stocks was matched by a contraction in shipments and the aggregate stock-shipments ratio for the sector remained at a very high level. In October, an additional sizable decline in manufacturing stocks resulted in a decrease in the sector's aggregate stock-shipments ratio, though it remained elevated. Wholesalers also experienced a sizable drop in inventories in the third quarter that produced a slight reduction in their aggregate inventory-sales ratio, but the latter was still in the upper portion of its range for the past two years. Retail inventories and the sector's inventory-sales ratio both edged up in the third quarter. Nonetheless, the sector's ratio remained in the lower end of its range for the past year.

The U.S. trade deficit in goods and services narrowed significantly in September and the third quarter, though most of those declines reflected estimated payments by foreign insurers related to the events of September 11. Abstracting from those payments, the trade deficit fell only a little in the third quarter as the value of exports fell by less than the value of imports. The softness in exports was widespread, with steep declines occurring in consumer goods, capital goods, and industrial supplies. Reductions in imports also were widespread, and as with exports, capital goods and industrial supplies were down sharply. The limited available information suggested a further weakening of economic activity in the foreign industrial countries in the current quarter, but there were some indications of a possible brightening of the economic outlook in the period ahead despite a sharp decline in business confidence in the aftermath of the September terrorist attacks. Additional monetary easing actions by the European Central Bank, the Bank of England, and the Bank of Canada contributed to that brighter outlook. Japan remained the weakest of the major foreign industrial economies, and the available information suggested further contraction in economic activity and worsened labor market conditions this quarter. Economic conditions in the major emerging-market countries remained weak, but there were signs that the worst might be over in some of the Asian economies most affected by the global downdraft in the high-tech sector. Economic growth in China seemed to have slowed a little. In Latin America, Argentina remained mired in recession, and the global slowdown continued to depress the economies of other nations in that region.

Core consumer price inflation remained at a relatively subdued pace in September and October, and a renewed decline in energy prices in October contributed to a sizable drop in total consumer price inflation during the twelve months ended in October when compared with the previous twelve-month period. The core personal consumption expenditure (PCE) chain-type price index also indicated that consumer inflation was significantly lower during the year ended in October, while the core consumer price index (CPI), with its narrower range of spending categories, had changed little over the past year. Core producer prices for finished goods edged up on balance during September and October, but inflation as measured by this index moderated slightly on a year-over-year basis. With regard to labor costs, growth of average hourly earnings of production or nonsupervisory workers slowed in September and October from the relatively moderate rate that had prevailed in earlier months.