In the Committee's discussion of current and prospective economic developments, members commented that the economy clearly was continuing to contract, led by further inventory liquidation and ongoing reductions in capital spending. The decline in inventories was likely to abate before long, boosting production, but the course of a recovery would depend on the behavior of final demand. The recent statistical and anecdotal information was more mixed than had been the case earlier and pointed on balance toward some moderation in the decline of overall final demand; for the first time in a long while the incoming data did not call for a downward revision to current forecasts. The members agreed, however, that the evidence of emerging stabilization in the economy remained quite tentative and the timing and strength of the eventual recovery continued to be surrounded by a high degree of uncertainty, with the risks to the economy still clearly tilted toward economic weakness. Among those risks, members cited the apparently reduced prospects for additional fiscal stimulus legislation, the vulnerability of current stock market valuations should forecasts of a robust rebound in earnings fail to materialize, the possibility of further terrorist incidents, and especially the potentially adverse effect on consumer confidence and spending of additional deterioration in labor market conditions. Nonetheless, with the critical consumer sector holding up relatively well thus far, members continued to anticipate an upturn in the economy during the year ahead in light of the progress already made by business firms in reducing excess inventories and unwinding capital overhangs, and the beneficial effects of the decline of energy prices. The lagged effects of the substantial easing in monetary policy this year and the fiscal stimulus measures already enacted into law were expected to buttress demand and economic recovery over the next year. The outlook for inflation was viewed as favorable, given the slack in labor and product markets, subdued inflationary expectations, and the prospect that aggregate demand would remain well below the economy's potential output over the next several quarters.

In the consumer sector, a major downside concern was the possibility that substantial further deterioration in labor market conditions, which was widely anticipated, could have a significant inhibiting effect on consumer confidence, incomes, and spending. Other potentially adverse economic factors cited by members included rising consumer debt burdens, the risk of a downturn in the stock market, and the recent rise in mortgage interest rates. That increase, among other things, would impinge on the extraction of capital gains from the turnover or refinancing of existing homes, which had provided important support for consumer spending. However, consumer expenditures appeared to have been relatively well sustained thus far, evidently in part the result of widespread price discounting and low interest rates, including zero rates on many motor vehicle loans, that were helping to overcome a currently high degree of caution and price consciousness among consumers. Moreover, recent survey evidence suggested that consumer confidence might be stabilizing after earlier declines. The significant decreases that had occurred in the prices of fuel oil and gasoline were a positive factor that would continue to bolster household spending for a while. Looking ahead, it was unclear how the various factors affecting consumers would interact, though apart from a likely downward adjustment in sales of motor vehicles to a more sustainable level following their recent surge, members generally anticipated that solid gains in consumer spending would underpin the economic recovery.

Like consumer spending, new home construction and sales had displayed considerable resilience in recent months, apparently in large part as a result of relatively attractive mortgage interest rates and perhaps to some extent as a consequence of favorable weather conditions in many parts of the country. Though overall housing activity remained at a high level, members reported softening activity in a few areas of the nation, notably in apartment units in some major cities. Sales of high-end houses also continued to be relatively depressed. With regard to the outlook, the recent rise in mortgage interest rates could be expected to have a retarding effect on housing activity. Even so, in the absence of seriously adverse shocks to confidence, housing activity seemed likely to hold near current levels over the quarters immediately ahead.

Business capital spending appeared to be continuing to decline at a rapid pace as business firms persisted in their efforts to bring production capacity into better alignment with forecasts for the growth of sales. With the near-term outlook for sales and profits remaining relatively depressed, the prospects for a significant pickup in spending for equipment and software did not seem favorable for the period immediately ahead. Businesses were reported to be very cautious, with many business executives awaiting concrete indications of improving markets before proceeding with planned investment expenditures. Even so, members referred to some tentative indications, such as an uptick in orders for durable goods and expectations of improving sales of some high-tech products, that might be signaling a turnaround in overall capital spending over coming quarters. Further progress in adjusting capacity and strengthening profit expectations would at some point lead to an upturn in spending for new equipment and software, but business contacts indicated that the timing for individual firms would vary considerably, with delays extending in some cases into 2003. New construction of nonresidential structures had declined sharply over the past several quarters, and with vacancy rates still rising in many key markets a further sizable decline was anticipated over the year ahead. Some members reported that higher insurance costs since the September 11 terrorist attacks were exerting an inhibiting effect on some nonresidential construction activity in their regions.

The liquidation of business inventories appeared to have accelerated in the current quarter, fostered to an important extent by very large declines in stocks of motor vehicles. Inventories now seemed to be approaching levels where firms would start to reduce their rate of liquidation early next year and perhaps turn to inventory accumulation as the year ahead progressed, giving a boost to production and incomes. Anecdotal reports provided some support for such an outlook, including widespread indications that retail inventories were already at quite lean levels, even outside the motor vehicle sector. At the same time, recent survey results pointed to less discomfort with current inventory levels though some further inventory correction was anticipated in manufacturing.

Further fiscal stimulus remained under active debate in the Congress, but with the rapid approach of the date for adjourning the current session, it was now questionable whether the legislation would be enacted this year. Although an expansionary fiscal policy was already in place as a result of earlier legislation and more stimulus might be legislated next year, especially if the economy continued to deteriorate, members saw an additional boost to near-term economic activity from new fiscal initiatives as increasingly unlikely. Some members also commented on mounting state and local government deficits, largely the result of diminishing income and sales tax receipts, and the adverse implications for governmental budgets and spending in various parts of the country.

Reflecting unusually synchronous global economic developments, foreign nations also were experiencing sluggish economic activity and in many instances actual recessions. The weakness was reflected in declining U.S. exports. Members saw little prospect that foreign economies would strengthen sufficiently on their own to provide significant independent impetus to U.S. exports, at least over the near term. Instead, an upturn in foreign economic activity would depend more on recovery in the United States.

Expectations that output would remain below the economy's potential for some time led many members to believe that underlying inflation might well edge lower from its currently modest levels. Reinforcing this outlook was recent evidence of somewhat faster than anticipated productivity growth, the prospect that world economic conditions would hold down energy prices, and a sharp drop in near-term inflation expectations of households as reported in recent surveys. Moreover, labor compensation appeared to be on a decelerating trend despite rapid increases in the cost of healthcare and other worker benefits. In these circumstances and given the persistence of highly competitive conditions in domestic and international markets, the ability of most businesses to raise prices was likely to remain quite limited or even nonexistent. While a number of members referred to the possibility of further disinflation, some also noted that the risks of a deflationary spiral seemed very limited, given the economy's self-correcting resilience and the ongoing effects of stimulative fiscal and monetary policies.

In the Committee's discussion of policy for the intermeeting period ahead, all but one member indicated their support of a proposal to ease reserve conditions slightly further, consistent with a 25 basis point reduction in the federal funds rate to a level of 1-3/4 percent. While there were signs that the weakness in aggregate demand might be abating, those signs were still quite limited and tentative. For now, contractionary forces continued to depress overall economic activity, and subpar economic performance seemed likely to persist, at least for a time. Moreover, a number of members saw substantial risks that economic activity could even fall short of a projection of stabilization in the near term and moderate recovery later next year. In these circumstances, the consequences of inactivity at this meeting could turn out to be considerable, and several members viewed an easing action as a measure of insurance against the potential for greater or more prolonged economic weakness than they currently anticipated. If a modest easing action taken today turned out to be unneeded, the Committee would have ample opportunity to reverse its action without incurring any real risk of allowing inflationary pressures to gather momentum, given the projected degree of slack in resource use and the current absence of significant inflationary pressures. The risk that a policy reversal, should it prove to be needed in the near term, would foster significant market unsettlement seemed limited in light of widespread expectations of some further easing at this meeting to be followed by a policy turnaround next year.

At the same time, members emphasized that the stance of policy was already quite accommodative, that much of the effects of recent easings had yet to be felt, and that tentative signs suggested the economy and the economic outlook were beginning to stabilize. In these circumstances several saw a decision to ease as a close call, but they favored it on balance given their weighting of the possible consequences should restraining forces in the economy persist to a greater extent than they currently expected. In the view of one member, policy was already sufficiently stimulative and the outlook improved enough to warrant a pause to assess further developments. In any event, members commented that the Committee's easing cycle was likely to be approaching its completion, and several suggested the desirability of signaling that view to the public.

Given their views about the risks to the economy, the members supported the retention of the sentence in the press statement to be released shortly after this meeting indicating that the risks continued to be weighted mainly toward conditions that could foster economic weakness in the foreseeable future. Such a statement was not intended to convey the impression that the Committee necessarily contemplated further easing actions. Members felt that the reduced size of today's action along with a reference in the statement to the emergence of signs that weakness in the economy could be moderating would tend to mitigate such an interpretation.