In their discussion of the economic situation and outlook, participants agreed that economic activity continued to strengthen and that the labor market appeared to be stabilizing. Incoming information on economic activity received over the intermeeting period was somewhat mixed but generally confirmed that the economic recovery was likely to proceed at a moderate pace. On the positive side, recent data pointed to significant gains in retail sales, a substantial pickup in business spending on equipment and software, and a further expansion of goods exports. Moreover, the latest labor market readings had been mildly encouraging, with a considerable increase in temporary employment, especially in the manufacturing and information technology sectors. However, housing starts had remained flat at a depressed level, investment in nonresidential structures was still declining, and state and local government expenditures were being depressed by lower revenues. Moreover, consumer sentiment continued to be damped by very weak labor market conditions, and firms remained reluctant to add to payrolls or to commit to new capital projects. Participants saw recent inflation readings as suggesting a slightly greater deceleration in consumer prices than had been expected. In light of stable longer-term inflation expectations and the likely continuation of substantial resource slack, they generally anticipated that inflation would be subdued for some time.

Participants agreed that financial market conditions remained supportive of economic growth. Spreads in short-term funding markets were near pre-crisis levels, and risk spreads on corporate bonds and measures of implied volatility in equity markets were broadly consistent with historical norms given the outlook for the economy. Participants were also reassured by the absence of any signs of renewed strains in financial market functioning as a consequence of the Federal Reserve's winding down of its special liquidity facilities. In contrast, bank lending was still contracting and interest rates on many bank loans had risen further in recent months. Participants anticipated that credit conditions would gradually improve over time, and they noted the possibility of a beneficial feedback loop in which the economic recovery would contribute to stronger bank balance sheets and so to an increased availability of credit to households and small businesses, which would in turn help boost the economy further.

While participants saw incoming information as broadly consistent with continued strengthening of economic activity, they also highlighted a variety of factors that would be likely to restrain the overall pace of recovery, especially in light of the waning effects of fiscal stimulus and inventory rebalancing over coming quarters. While recent data pointed to a noticeable pickup in the pace of consumer spending during the first quarter, participants agreed that household spending going forward was likely to remain constrained by weak labor market conditions, lower housing wealth, tight credit, and modest income growth. For example, real disposable personal income in January was virtually unchanged from a year earlier and would have been even lower in the absence of a substantial rise in federal transfer payments to households. Business spending on equipment and software picked up substantially over recent months, but anecdotal information suggested that this pickup was driven mainly by increased spending on maintaining existing capital and updating technology rather than expanding capacity. The continued gains in manufacturing production were bolstered by growing demand from foreign trading partners, especially emerging market economies. However, a few participants noted the possibility that fiscal retrenchment in some foreign countries could trigger a slowdown of those economies and hence weigh on the demand for U.S. exports.

Some labor market indicators displayed positive signals over the intermeeting period, including a pickup in temporary employment and increased job postings. Indeed, nonfarm payrolls might well have increased in February in the absence of weather disruptions. Nevertheless, participants were concerned about the scarcity of job openings, the elevated level of unemployment, and the extent of longer-term unemployment, which was seen as potentially leading to the loss of worker skills. Moreover, the downward trend in initial unemployment insurance claims appeared to have leveled off in recent weeks, while hiring remained at historically low rates. Information from business contacts and evidence from regional surveys generally underscored the degree to which firms' reluctance to add to payrolls or start large capital projects reflected their concerns about the economic outlook and uncertainty regarding future government policies. A number of participants pointed out that the economic recovery could not be sustained over time without a substantial pickup in job creation, which they still anticipated but had not yet become evident in the data.

Participants were also concerned that activity in the housing sector appeared to be leveling off in most regions despite various forms of government support, and they noted that commercial and industrial real estate markets continued to weaken. Indeed, housing sales and starts had flattened out at depressed levels, suggesting that previous improvements in those indicators may have largely reflected transitory effects from the first-time homebuyer tax credit rather than a fundamental strengthening of housing activity. Participants indicated that the pace of foreclosures was likely to remain quite high; indeed, recent data on the incidence of seriously delinquent mortgages pointed to the possibility that the foreclosure rate could move higher over coming quarters. Moreover, the prospect of further additions to the already very large inventory of vacant homes posed downside risks to home prices.

Participants referred to a wide array of evidence as indicating that underlying inflation trends remained subdued. The latest readings on core inflation--which exclude the relatively volatile prices of food and energy--were generally lower than they had anticipated, and with petroleum prices having leveled out, headline inflation was likely to come down to a rate close to that of core inflation over coming months. While the ongoing decline in the implicit rental cost for owner-occupied housing was weighing on core inflation, a number of participants observed that the moderation in price changes was widespread across many categories of spending. This moderation was evident in the appreciable slowing of inflation measures such as trimmed means and medians, which exclude the most extreme price movements in each period.

In discussing the inflation outlook, participants took note of signs that inflation expectations were reasonably well anchored, and most agreed that substantial resource slack was continuing to restrain cost pressures. Measures of gains in nominal compensation had slowed, and sharp increases in productivity had pushed down producers' unit labor costs. Anecdotal information indicated that planned wage increases were small or nonexistent and suggested that large margins of underutilized capital and labor and a highly competitive pricing environment were exerting considerable downward pressure on price adjustments. Survey readings and financial market data pointed to a modest decline in longer-term inflation expectations over recent months. While all participants anticipated that inflation would be subdued over the near term, a few noted that the risks to inflation expectations and the medium-term inflation outlook might be tilted to the upside in light of the large fiscal deficits and the extraordinarily accommodative stance of monetary policy.