The information reviewed at the March 16 meeting suggested that economic activity expanded at a moderate pace in early 2010. Business investment in equipment and software seemed to have picked up, consumer spending increased further in January, and private employment would likely have turned up in February in the absence of the snowstorms that affected the East Coast. Output in the manufacturing sector continued to trend higher as firms increased production to meet strengthening final demand and to slow the pace of inventory liquidation. On the downside, housing activity remained flat and the nonresidential construction sector weakened further. Meanwhile, a sizable increase in energy prices pushed up headline consumer price inflation in recent months; in contrast, core consumer price inflation was quite low.

Available indicators suggested that the labor market might be stabilizing. Declines in private payrolls slowed markedly in recent months, and, in the absence of the snowstorms, private employment probably would have risen in February. The average workweek for production and nonsupervisory workers fell back in February after ticking up in January; however, the drop was likely due to the storms. The unemployment rate was unchanged at 9.7 percent in February, and the labor force participation rate inched up over the past two months. However, the level of initial claims for unemployment insurance benefits remained high.

After increasing briskly in the second half of 2009, industrial production (IP) continued to expand, on net, in the early months of 2010, rising sharply in January and remaining little changed in February despite some adverse effects of the snowstorms. Recent production gains remained broadly based across industries, as firms continued to boost production to meet rising domestic and foreign demand and to slow the pace of inventory liquidation. Capacity utilization in manufacturing rose further, to a level noticeably above its trough in June, but remained well below its longer-run average. As a result, incentives for manufacturing firms to expand production capacity were weak. The available indicators of near-term manufacturing activity pointed to moderate gains in IP in coming months.

Consumer spending continued to move up. Although sales of new automobiles and light trucks softened slightly, on average, in January and February, real outlays for a wide variety of non-auto goods and food services increased appreciably, and real outlays for other services remained on a gradual uptrend. In contrast to the modest recovery in spending, measures of consumer sentiment remained relatively downbeat in February and had improved little, on balance, since a modest rebound last spring. Household income appeared less supportive of spending than at the January meeting, reflecting downward revisions to estimates by the Bureau of Economic Analysis of wages and salaries in the second half of 2009. The ratio of household net worth to income was little changed in the fourth quarter after two consecutive quarters of appreciable gains.

Activity in the housing sector appeared to have flattened out in recent months. Sales of both new and existing homes had turned down, while starts of single-family homes were about unchanged despite the substantial reduction in inventories of unsold new homes. Some of the recent weakness in sales might have been due to transactions that had been pulled forward in anticipation of the originally scheduled expiration of the tax credit for first-time homebuyers in November 2009; nonetheless, the underlying pace of housing demand likely remained weak. The slowdown in sales notwithstanding, housing demand was being supported by low interest rates for conforming fixed-rate 30-year mortgages and reportedly by a perception that real estate values were near their trough.

Real spending on equipment and software increased at a solid pace in the fourth quarter of 2009 and apparently rose further early in the first quarter of 2010. Business outlays for motor vehicles seemed to be holding up after a sharp increase in the fourth quarter, purchases of high-tech equipment appeared to be rising briskly, and incoming data pointed to some firming in outlays on other equipment. The recent gains in investment spending were consistent with improvements in many indicators of business demand. In contrast, conditions in the nonresidential construction sector generally remained poor. Real outlays on structures outside of the drilling and mining sector fell again in the fourth quarter, and nominal expenditures dropped further in January. The weakness was widespread across categories and likely reflected rising vacancy rates, falling property prices, and difficult financing conditions for new projects. However, real spending on drilling and mining structures increased strongly in response to the earlier rebound in oil and natural gas prices.

The pace of inventory liquidation slowed considerably in late 2009. As measured in the national income and product accounts, real nonfarm inventories excluding motor vehicles were drawn down at a much slower pace in the fourth quarter than in each of the preceding two quarters. Available data for January indicated a further small liquidation of real stocks early this year in the manufacturing and wholesale trade sectors. The ratio of book-value inventories to sales (excluding motor vehicles and parts) edged down again in January and stood well below the recent peak recorded near the end of 2008. Inventories remained elevated for equipment, materials, and, to a lesser degree, construction supplies, while inventories of consumer goods and business supplies appeared to be low relative to demand.

Although rising energy prices continued to boost overall consumer price inflation, consumer prices excluding food and energy were soft, as a wide variety of goods and services exhibited persistently low inflation or outright price declines. On a 12-month change basis, core personal consumption expenditures (PCE) price inflation slowed in January 2010 compared with a year earlier, as a marked and fairly widespread deceleration in market-based core PCE prices was partly offset by an acceleration in nonmarket prices. Survey expectations for near-term inflation were unchanged over the intermeeting period; median longer-term inflation expectations edged down to near the lower end of the narrow range that prevailed over the previous few years. With regard to labor costs, the revised data on wages and salaries showed that last year's deceleration in hourly compensation was even sharper than was evident at the January meeting.

The U.S. international trade deficit widened in December but narrowed slightly in January, ending the period a little larger. Both exports and imports rose sharply in December before pulling back somewhat the following month. For the period as a whole, the rise in exports was broadly based, with notable gains in aircraft and industrial supplies. Oil and other industrial supplies accounted for much of the increase in imports over the two months, while purchases of consumer products declined.

Economic performance in the advanced foreign economies was mixed in the fourth quarter, with real gross domestic product (GDP) advancing sharply in Canada and Japan but rising only slightly in the euro area and the United Kingdom. That divergence appeared to have persisted in the first quarter, as indicators pointed to continued rapid economic growth in Canada and moderate expansion in Japan but somewhat anemic growth in Europe. In the emerging market economies, rebounding global trade, inventory restocking, and increased domestic demand supported generally robust fourth-quarter growth. Continued rapid expansion in China and several other Asian economies offset slowdowns elsewhere in the region. In Latin America, Mexican activity was buoyed by rising manufacturing and exports to the United States, while Brazil's economy again grew briskly. Headline consumer price inflation picked up around the world over the past two months, principally reflecting increases in food and energy prices. Excluding food and energy, consumer prices were generally more subdued.