The decision by the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) at the January meeting to keep the target range for the federal funds rate unchanged and to retain the "extended period" language in the statement was widely anticipated by market participants. However, investors reportedly read the statement's characterization of the economic outlook as somewhat more upbeat than they had anticipated, and Eurodollar futures rates rose a bit in response. The changes to the terms for primary credit and the Term Auction Facility that were announced on February 18 resulted in a small increase in near-term futures rates, but this reaction proved short lived, as the statement and subsequent Federal Reserve communications--including the Chairman's semiannual congressional testimony--emphasized that the modifications were technical adjustments and did not signal any near-term shifts in the overall stance of monetary policy.

On balance, incoming economic data led investors to mark down the expected path of the federal funds rate over the intermeeting period. By contrast, yields on 2-year and 10-year nominal Treasury securities edged up, on net, over the period. Yields on Treasury inflation-protected securities (TIPS) rose at all maturities, reportedly buoyed by investor anticipation of heavier TIPS issuance and by reduced demand for TIPS by retail investors. Reflecting these developments, inflation compensation--the difference between nominal yields and TIPS yields for a given term to maturity--declined over the period, a move that was supported by the somewhat weaker-than-expected economic data and the publication of lower-than-expected readings on consumer prices.

Conditions in short-term funding markets remained generally stable over the intermeeting period. Spreads between London interbank offered rates (Libor) and overnight index swap (OIS) rates at one- and three-month maturities stayed low, while six-month spreads edged down somewhat further. Spreads of rates on A2/P2-rated commercial paper and on AA-rated asset-backed commercial paper over the AA nonfinancial rate were also little changed at low levels. The Federal Reserve continued to taper its large-scale asset purchases and wind down the emergency lending facilities with no apparent adverse effects on financial markets or institutions.

Broad stock price indexes rose, on net, over the intermeeting period, boosted in part by favorable earnings reports from the retail sector. Bank equity prices outperformed the broader equity markets. Option-implied volatility on the S&P 500 index dropped back to post-crisis lows after increasing earlier in the period on concerns about Chinese monetary policy tightening and fiscal strains in Europe. Nonetheless, the gap between the staff's estimate of the expected real equity return over the next 10 years for S&P 500 firms and the real 10-year Treasury yield--a rough measure of the equity risk premium--remained well above its average over the past decade. Yields on investment-grade corporate bonds, as well as their spreads over yields on comparable-maturity Treasury securities, were about unchanged over the intermeeting period; investment-grade risk spreads were near the levels that prevailed late in 2007. Yields and spreads on speculative-grade bonds edged down, and secondary-market prices of leveraged loans rose further.

Overall, net debt financing by nonfinancial firms was about zero over the first two months of 2010, consistent with firms' weak demand for credit and banks' tight credit policies. Gross public equity issuance by nonfinancial firms was robust in the fourth quarter of 2009. Since the turn of the year, gross public equity issuance by nonfinancial firms slowed somewhat, while announcements of both new share repurchase programs and cash-financed mergers and acquisitions picked up. Public equity issuance by financial firms declined in January and February following very strong issuance in December, when several large banks issued equity to facilitate the repayment of capital received under the Troubled Asset Relief Program. Gross bond issuance by financial firms remained solid. The contraction in commercial mortgage debt accelerated in the fourth quarter. The dollar value of commercial real estate sales remained very low in February, and the share of properties sold at a nominal loss inched higher. The delinquency rate on commercial mortgages in securitized pools increased in January, and the delinquency rate on commercial mortgages at commercial banks rose in the fourth quarter. The percentage of delinquent construction loans at banks also ticked higher in the fourth quarter. Nonetheless, indexes of commercial mortgage credit default swaps changed little, on balance, over the intermeeting period.

Since the January meeting, yields and spreads on agency MBS were little changed despite the continued tapering of the Federal Reserve's purchases of these securities, and residential mortgage interest rates and spreads were roughly flat. Net issuance of MBS by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac remained subdued through the end of January. Consumer credit expanded in January, its first increase since January 2009. Despite low and stable spreads on consumer asset-backed securities (ABS), the amount of ABS issued in the first two months of the year was somewhat below that in the fourth quarter, reflecting the very weak pace of consumer credit originations late last year. The spread of credit card interest rates over two-year Treasury yields ticked up in January, while spreads on new auto loans declined slightly, on net, over the intermeeting period. Delinquency rates on credit card loans in securitized pools and on auto loans at captive finance companies remained elevated in January but were down a bit from their recent peaks.

Total bank credit contracted substantially in January and February. Banks' securities holdings declined at a modest pace after several months of steady growth, and total loans on banks' books continued to drop. Commercial and industrial (C&I) loans continued falling, as spreads of interest rates on C&I loans over comparable-maturity market instruments climbed further in the first quarter and nonfinancial firms' need for external finance apparently remained subdued. Commercial real estate loans also posted significant declines. Household loans on banks' books contracted as well, in part because of a pickup in bank securitizations of first-lien residential mortgages with the government-sponsored enterprises in February. Consumer loans originated by banks declined, primarily reflecting a large drop in credit card loans. In contrast, other consumer loans--including auto, student, and tax advance loans--were roughly flat during January and February.

M2 decreased in January, owing partly to a contraction in liquid deposits. Many institutions opted out of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation's Transaction Account Guarantee Program because of the higher fees associated with participation after year-end, reportedly driving depositors to transfer funds out of transaction accounts and into alternative investments outside of M2. M2 expanded in February, however, as liquid deposits resumed their growth. Small time deposits and retail money market mutual funds contracted in January and, to a lesser extent, in February, while currency declined a bit in January but advanced notably in February. The monetary base rose in both months, as the increase in reserve balances resulting from the ongoing large-scale asset purchases by the Federal Reserve more than offset the contraction in balances associated with the decline in credit outstanding under the System's liquidity and credit facilities.

Movements in foreign financial markets since the January meeting were importantly influenced by concerns over fiscal problems in Greece. Spreads on Greek government debt relative to German bunds widened appreciably before falling back as press reports indicated that euro-area countries were discussing a possible aid package for Greece and the Greek government announced further deficit reduction measures. Spreads on debt issued by several other European countries followed a similar pattern over the intermeeting period. The Bank of England (BOE) and the European Central Bank (ECB) held rates steady during the period, and the BOE elected not to expand its Asset Purchase Facility, which reached its limit at the end of January. In early March, the ECB announced several steps to normalize its provision of liquidity. Equity prices in most foreign countries were up moderately since the January FOMC meeting. Likely reflecting the concerns about Greece as well as weak economic data in Europe, the dollar appreciated notably against sterling and the euro over the intermeeting period. However, the dollar declined against most emerging market currencies, which were buoyed by brightening growth prospects, leaving the broad trade-weighted value of the dollar down a bit since the January meeting.