The information reviewed at this meeting suggested that economic activity was expanding at a more moderate pace than earlier in the year. Growth in consumer spending had slowed from the outsized gains seen earlier, and sales of new homes and motor vehicles were down appreciably from their earlier highs. However, business spending on equipment and software had continued to surge, and industrial production was still trending upward. Even though expansion in employment had slowed considerably in recent months, labor markets remained extremely tight by historical standards, and some measures of labor compensation had accelerated. With productivity also continuing to accelerate, unit labor costs had changed little and measures of core price inflation had increased only mildly.

Total nonfarm payroll employment dropped appreciably in July after a small increase in June. Much of the weakness over the two months reflected substantial declines in the number of temporary Census workers. In the private sector, payroll gains had diminished somewhat on balance since the first quarter. The slowdown was particularly large in the usually robust services sector. Manufacturing employment, by contrast, had risen on net since the early spring after a lengthy decline. The civilian unemployment rate remained at 4.0 percent in July.

Industrial production registered further gains in June and July. Persisting strength in manufacturing output was accompanied by brisk increases in mining activity and sizable declines in utilities services associated with cooler-than-normal temperatures. In manufacturing, production of high-tech equipment and most other types of business equipment remained robust, but the manufacture of motor vehicles and parts dropped substantially in July after a small June decline. The further step-up in overall manufacturing activity lifted capacity utilization to a rate around its long-term average.

Growth of nominal retail sales picked up appreciably in July after having slowed noticeably in the second quarter. Sales rose sharply at general merchandisers, furniture and appliance stores, and outlets for other durable goods. However, outlays at automotive dealers declined substantially. Growth in household expenditures for services eased somewhat in the second quarter (latest available data), with a drop in spending for brokerage services more than accounting for the slowdown. The recent deceleration in consumer spending occurred against the background of moderate growth of real disposable income in recent quarters and little net change in stock market valuations thus far this year. Nevertheless, consumer sentiment continued to be very buoyant.

With mortgage rates at levels well above their average for last year, total private housing starts fell further in June and July, reaching their lowest level since late 1997. Sales of new single-family homes also were weaker in June (latest data). By contrast, sales of existing homes picked up somewhat in June. Consumers' assessments of homebuying conditions and builders' ratings of new home sales remained soft.

Growth of business fixed investment, while still robust, slowed considerably in the second quarter after having surged in the first quarter. Business spending on equipment and software continued to expand at its very rapid first-quarter pace; investment in high-tech equipment (notably computers and communications equipment), software, and industrial machinery was particularly strong. By contrast, outlays for nonresidential structures weakened in the second quarter after a first-quarter burst.

The book value of manufacturing and trade inventories jumped in the second quarter. Part of the pickup reflected large increases in stocks of motor vehicles at wholesalers and automotive dealerships that left inventory-sales ratios in the motor vehicle sector at relatively high levels. Elsewhere, stockbuilding was only a bit stronger than sales, and inventory-sales ratios generally remained within their relatively low ranges for the preceding twelve months.

The U.S. trade deficit in goods and services changed little in June from its May level, but the deficit for the second quarter as a whole was appreciably larger than its average for the first quarter. Both exports and imports grew rapidly last quarter, though the dollar value of imports increased significantly more than the value of exports. The available information indicated that economic expansion was vigorous in both foreign industrial countries and major developing countries in the second quarter, but recent information pointed to some slowing of growth in these countries.

Recent data suggested that price inflation had picked up slightly. Consumer prices, as measured in the CPI, jumped in June in response to a surge in energy prices but climbed only modestly further in July when energy prices changed little. Excluding the food and energy components, consumer prices rose moderately in both months. For the twelve months ended in July, core CPI prices increased somewhat more than in the previous twelve-month period. When measured by the PCE chain-price index, however, the acceleration in core consumer prices during the last four quarters was very small. Producer prices exhibited a pattern that was generally similar to that of consumer prices. Prices of all finished goods jumped in June and were unchanged in July, and core producer prices were unchanged on balance in the June-July period. For the twelve months ended in July, core producer prices rose slightly more than in the previous twelve-month period. With regard to labor compensation, recent data suggested an acceleration, on balance, over the past year. Growth in hourly compensation for private industry workers slowed somewhat in the second quarter after having risen sharply in the first quarter. Over the four quarters ended in June, however, the change in compensation rates was substantially larger than the change over the previous four-quarter period. By contrast, the advance of average hourly earnings of production or nonsupervisory workers for the twelve months ended in July was about the same as that for the previous twelve-month period.