At its meeting on June 27-28, 2000, the Committee adopted a directive that called for maintaining conditions in reserve markets consistent with an unchanged federal funds rate of about 6-1/2 percent. In reaching this decision, the members cited increasing though still tentative indications of some slowing in aggregate demand from an unsustainably elevated pace and the likelihood that the policy tightening actions implemented earlier had not yet exerted their full retarding effects on spending. The members agreed, however, that the statement accompanying the announcement of their decision should continue to underscore their view that the risks remained weighted mainly in the direction of rising inflation.

Open market operations were directed throughout the intermeeting period toward maintaining the federal funds rate at the Committee's target level of 6-1/2 percent, and the rate averaged close to the intended level. Other interest rates generally moved lower over the period, extending declines that had begun during the spring. Factors contributing to the most recent reductions included economic data releases that were viewed, on balance, as confirming earlier indications that demand growth was slowing to a more sustainable pace and that price pressures would remain damped, thereby lessening or potentially obviating further tightening of monetary policy. Most broad indexes of stock market prices rose somewhat over the period since the June meeting.

In foreign exchange markets, the trade-weighted value of the dollar increased on net against an index of major currencies, even though interest rate differentials moved against assets denominated in dollars relative to those of other industrial countries. At least in part, the dollar's appreciation reflected heightened market perceptions that economic growth in the United States, though evidently moderating from its rapid pace in recent quarters, was likely to continue to exceed that in most other industrial nations. The foreign exchange value of the dollar dropped slightly against the currencies of other important trading partners, paced by a substantial rise in the value of the Mexican peso in response to brightening political and economic prospects in Mexico.

The growth of domestic nonfinancial debt moderated slightly in the second quarter as a result of an accelerated paydown in federal debt while private borrowing remained brisk. However, partial data for the period since midyear suggested that the overall growth in household and business borrowing might also be slowing somewhat. The expansion of M2 had declined substantially since late spring, apparently in part as a result of the widening opportunity costs of holding assets in M2 stemming from higher market interest rates and possibly also from slackening growth in household incomes. Sluggish currency flows were another contributing factor. At the same time, M3 accelerated in July and partial data pointed to further robust growth in August. The advance in this broader aggregate seemed to be driven by interest-sensitive inflows to M3's institutional money fund component.