The staff forecast prepared for this meeting continued to suggest that the economic expansion would moderate gradually from its currently elevated pace to a rate around or perhaps a little below the growth of the economy's estimated potential. The expansion of domestic final demand increasingly would be held back by the anticipated waning of positive wealth effects associated with earlier large gains in equity prices and by higher interest rates; as a result, growth of spending on consumer durables and houses was expected to slow further. By contrast, business fixed investment, notably purchases of equipment and software, was projected to remain robust, and continued solid economic growth abroad would boost the growth of U.S. exports for some period ahead. Core price inflation was projected to rise noticeably over the forecast horizon, partly as a result of higher import prices and some firming of gains in nominal labor compensation in persistently tight labor markets that would not be fully offset by productivity growth.

In the Committee's discussion of current and prospective economic developments, members cited evidence of slower expansion in economic activity in recent months. In particular, consumer spending had decelerated noticeably, especially for housing and motor vehicles, but the members agreed that the eventual extent and duration of the slowing in overall economic growth were subject to substantial uncertainty. A number of factors supported a projection of considerably more moderate expansion going forward in relation to the overly rapid pace in the second half of 1999 and early 2000, including the likelihood that much of the effect on spending of the rise in interest rates and leveling out in equity prices this year had not yet been felt. Nevertheless, the indications of slowing economic expansion were still tentative. Some sectors of the economy such as business fixed investment continued to display substantial vigor, and the members could not be confident that growth would not rebound to a clearly unsustainable pace, as had occurred previously in this expansion. With regard to inflation, members observed that steep increases in energy prices had boosted overall rates of inflation somewhat, and in addition the higher energy prices likely had contributed indirectly to the rise in core measures of inflation. A number of members also were concerned that rising core inflation could be generated increasingly from unsustainably tight labor markets, and they noted that labor costs would need to be monitored closely even if growth in demand slowed sufficiently to keep levels of resource utilization about unchanged. To date, however, rising productivity growth had contained labor cost pressures, and despite the moderation in the expansion of activity, there were no early signs of any slowing in the growth of productivity.

In preparation for a report to Congress, the members of the Board of Governors and the presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks provided individual projections of the growth of nominal and real GDP, the rate of unemployment, and the rate of inflation for the years 2000 and 2001. With regard to the growth of nominal GDP, most of the forecasts were in ranges of 6-1/4 to 6-3/4 percent for 2000 as a whole and 5-1/2 to 6 percent for 2001. The forecasts of the rate of expansion in real GDP had a central tendency of 4 to 4-1/2 percent for 2000, suggesting a noticeable deceleration in the second half of the year, and were centered on a range of 3-1/4 to 3-3/4 percent for 2001. The civilian rates of unemployment associated with these forecasts had central tendencies of about 4 percent in the fourth quarter of 2000 and 4 to 4-1/4 percent in the fourth quarter of 2001. Forecasts of the rate of inflation were shaped importantly by the projected pattern of energy prices; for this year the forecasts, as measured by the chain price index for personal consumption expenditures, were centered on a range of 2-1/2 to 2-3/4 percent before dropping back to a range of 2 to 2-1/2 percent in 2001.

In their assessment of business conditions in different parts of the country, the presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks commented on indications of some slowing in the expansion of regional economic activity in a majority of the districts, though several emphasized that the available information pointed to only slight moderation to date. This slowing and the cumulative effects of the firming in financial conditions this year had been accompanied by an increasing number of anecdotal reports of more cautious business sentiment.

In their comments on developments in key sectors of the economy nationwide, the members reported on statistical and anecdotal indications that growth in consumer spending had slowed appreciably in recent months from the unusually robust pace seen in late 1999 and early this year. A number of factors that might account for the moderation could also point to the possible extension of the less robust trend. Those factors included gradually waning wealth effects associated with the absence of further large gains in stock market prices; rising levels of consumer debt; the loss of consumer purchasing power stemming from higher energy prices; and the large cumulative buildup of consumer stocks of motor vehicles and other durables. Still, the data on retail sales were volatile and often revised significantly; some of the recent moderation in spending might have reflected a pause following the surge in demand during atypically favorable weather conditions over the winter months; and the pace of purchases could pick up again. While the course of consumer spending remained uncertain, members concluded that, in the context of relatively high levels of consumer confidence and sizable projected gains in jobs and incomes, slower but still solid expansion in consumer expenditures was most likely to occur over coming quarters.

The housing market also provided clear evidence of weakening demand. The slowdown evidently reflected the effects of higher mortgage interest rates on a growing number of homebuyers and probably also the diminishing wealth effects of the earlier run-up in stock prices and the cumulatively large additions to the stock of housing in the economy. The sluggish tone of the housing data was confirmed by anecdotal reports of slowing residential sales and building activity in most parts of the country. Despite these developments, sizable building backlogs in many areas, the outlook for continuing growth in consumer incomes, and still favorable consumer sentiment were likely to support substantial homebuilding activity, albeit at a reduced level. At least in some parts of the country, firms supplying building materials and home furnishings were beginning to feel the retarding effects of the slowdown in the housing market.

After a surge early in the year that evidently reflected in part investment spending delayed by Y2K concerns, growth in business fixed investment had moderated in recent months but was expected to remain quite robust over the next several quarters. New orders for many types of business equipment had remained strong, order backlogs had continued to build, and it was clear that business executives still anticipated high rates of return on their new investments. As a result, business investment spending could be expected to remain elevated, at least over the nearer term and especially for high-tech equipment and software. At the same time, members cited anecdotal indications of the emergence of a more cautious tone in the business community, evidently associated in part with less favorable financial conditions in debt and equity markets and possibly auguring more substantial cutbacks in business investment over time should growth in personal consumption outlays be sustained on a considerably slower trend.

Strengthening economic activity in many of the nations that are important U.S. trading partners was reflected in expanding exports, and several members provided anecdotal confirmation of growing foreign markets for many U.S. goods and services. While expanding export markets were a welcome development from the perspective of many domestic businesses, they would add to overall demand pressures on U.S. producer resources at a time when the latter were already operating at very high levels.

With regard to the outlook for inflation, members gave considerable attention to the somewhat faster increases in broad price measures over the past year, but they differed to some extent regarding the prospects for further increases in inflation. It was generally agreed that developments relating to energy would continue to exert upward pressure on prices over the near term, including the passthrough or indirect effects of higher oil prices on core measures of inflation. Looking beyond the near term, a number of members, noting that core measures of consumer prices had been rising more rapidly this year, were concerned that these prices might well continue to accelerate gradually, even assuming that economic expansion would be sustained at a pace close to the economy's potential. In this view, labor markets were already operating at levels of utilization that were likely eventually to produce rising labor costs that would be passed through to market prices even if productivity growth remained high or rose somewhat further. Other members were more optimistic that core inflation might be contained near current levels. The recent increase in core inflation could largely reflect the indirect effects of the rise in energy prices. To date, unit labor costs had been quite subdued, leaving open the question of what was a sustainable level of labor resource use. Rising productivity was likely to continue to restrain unit labor costs to a degree, and product markets remained highly competitive. However, even these members saw considerable inflation risks should the slowdown in aggregate demand fail to be sustained, and the members generally agreed that for the foreseeable future possible increases in underlying inflation remained the principal risk to the continued good performance of the U.S. economy.