At its meeting on May 16, 2000, the Committee adopted a directive that called for a tightening of conditions in reserve markets sufficient to raise the federal funds rate 1/2 percentage point, to a level of 6-1/2 percent. The members noted that the relatively forceful move was necessary given the persisting growth of aggregate demand in excess of the expansion of potential supply, which was creating rising pressures in already tight markets for labor and other resources. In their view, this action would help bring aggregate demand into better alignment over time with potential supply and thereby work to forestall the emergence of inflationary expectations and the buildup of inflationary pressures. They also noted that even with this additional firming the risks were still weighted mainly in the direction of rising inflationary pressures.

Open market operations during the intermeeting period were directed toward implementing the desired increased pressure on reserve positions, and the federal funds rate averaged very close to the Committee's 6-1/2 percent target. The Committee's action and its announcement surprised markets only a little, and bond and stock prices edged a bit lower. Markets grew increasingly uneasy over the next few weeks as incoming data suggested the possible need for further substantial policy tightening, which could have adverse effects on corporate earnings. These concerns apparently contributed to sharp further declines in equity prices and to widening risk spreads on corporate bonds. Subsequently, debt and equity markets rebounded in response to a series of U.S. economic data releases that were viewed as signaling a moderation in aggregate demand and a continuation of limited cost and price pressures, and thus a reduced probability of additional monetary tightening. On balance over the intermeeting interval, yields on longer-term Treasury securities and investment-grade corporate bonds declined appreciably, and most broad stock price indexes ended the period little changed.

In foreign exchange markets, the trade-weighted value of the dollar depreciated somewhat over the intermeeting period against an index of major currencies. Decreases in longer-term U.S. interest rates weighed on the dollar, and the dollar's decline against the euro also occurred against the background of indicators of accelerating activity in the euro area and possible further monetary tightening. Frequent hints that the Bank of Japan might abandon its zero policy rate might have contributed to the dollar's weakness against the yen. By contrast, the dollar strengthened a little against the currencies of a group of other important trading partners, notably the currencies of Mexico, Indonesia, and the Philippines.

M2 and M3 appeared to have rebounded in June following the clearing in May of unusually large final personal tax payments for 1999. The expansion of these aggregates likely had been held down somewhat this year by sluggish currency growth in the aftermath of the century date change and by the increase in the opportunity cost of their liquid components associated with rising market interest rates. Nevertheless, supported by rapid growth in nominal spending and income, M2 evidently had expanded over the first half of the year at a rate close to that in 1999, and M3 had expanded at a faster rate than last year. Strong demands for bank credit, funded by the issuance of large time deposits and other liabilities not included in M2, underlaid the acceleration in M3.