The information reviewed at this meeting suggested that the economic expansion was moderating somewhat from a very rapid pace in the first quarter. Consumer spending was increasing only modestly after large gains earlier, housing activity was down somewhat, and growth of business spending on capital equipment, while still quite vigorous, was slowing a little after a first-quarter surge. As a consequence, industrial production and employment were rising at somewhat reduced rates. Core consumer prices continued to evidence some acceleration, to an important extent reflecting some indirect effects of the sharp increase in oil prices over the past year.

Nonfarm payroll employment increased further in May, although the rise was associated with a surge in government hiring of census workers that more than offset a considerable contraction in private payrolls. The drop in private employment following very large gains in March and April seemed, in the absence of other signs of weakening labor demand, to be attributable at least to some extent to statistical noise and seasonal adjustment problems. Averaging over the three months, private nonfarm employment advanced at about the rate of the previous twelve months. The civilian unemployment rate averaged 4.0 percent over April and May.

Industrial production continued to rise in May after a brisk increase in April, but the average gain for April and May was somewhat below the average monthly advance during the two previous quarters. Manufacturing output climbed at a slower rate in the April-May period, reflecting less rapid growth in the production of high-tech equipment and sluggish output of other non-automotive equipment. The further step-up in manufacturing activity lifted capacity utilization a little further, bringing it still closer to its long-term average.

Growth of consumer spending apparently slowed considerably in the second quarter after outsized gains in several previous quarters. Nominal retail sales declined in both April and May; outlays fell at durable goods outlets and edged up at nondurable goods stores. Despite the recent weakness, however, continued solid expansion of disposable incomes, the large accumulated gains in household wealth, and very positive consumer sentiment suggested that underlying fundamentals behind household spending remained favorable.

Higher mortgage rates apparently were exerting a restraining effect on residential housing activity. Total private housing starts fell in May to their lowest level since the middle of last year. Moreover, while sales of new single-family homes had not yet slackened appreciably through April (latest data), sales of existing homes through May were running below their 1999 average. In addition, consumers' assessments of homebuying conditions and builders' ratings of new home sales had weakened significantly.

Business fixed investment appeared to be on track for another rapid increase in the second quarter. Shipments of nondefense capital goods, notably computing and communications equipment, continued on a strong uptrend in May, and the persisting strength in orders for many types of equipment pointed to further advances in coming months. Outlays for nonresidential structures, which had been weak in 1999, rose sharply in the first quarter and recorded a further appreciable gain in April.

The book value of manufacturing and trade inventories increased in April at about the first-quarter pace. Stockbuilding was generally in line with sales, and aggregate inventory-sales ratios for the manufacturing, wholesale, and retail sectors remained near the bottom of their ranges for the preceding twelve months. There were few indications across industries of significant inventory imbalances.

The U.S. trade deficit in goods and services for April was very close to its March level. However, the deficit was up appreciably from its average for the first quarter, with the value of imports increasing substantially more than the value of exports. The available information indicated robust economic growth in all major regions of the world thus far this year. Economic activity in the foreign industrial countries expanded vigorously in the first quarter, and growth generally appeared to be continuing at a strong pace in the second quarter. In addition, the available information suggested that a number of emerging-market economies had registered very rapid expansion thus far this year.

Recent information continued to indicate that consumer price inflation had picked up, while producer price inflation was essentially unchanged. Consumer prices edged up in May after having been unchanged in April; excluding the price and energy components, consumer prices rose moderately further in May. For the twelve months ended in May, both total and core consumer prices increased somewhat more than in the previous twelve-month period. At the producer level, prices of finished goods other than food and energy edged higher in April and May and rose during the twelve months ended in May by the same moderate amount recorded for the previous twelve-month period. With regard to labor costs, average hourly earnings of production or nonsupervisory workers registered only a slight increase in May after a somewhat larger rise in April. The advance for the twelve months ended in April was about the same as that for the previous twelve-month period.