In contrast to its earlier practice, the Committee at this meeting did not establish ranges for growth of money and debt in 2000 and 2001. The legal requirement to set and announce such ranges recently had expired, and the members did not view the ranges as currently serving a useful role in the formulation of monetary policy. Owing to uncertainties about the behavior of the velocities of money and debt, these ranges had not provided reliable benchmarks for the conduct of monetary policy for some years. Nevertheless, the Committee believed that the behavior of these aggregates retained value for gauging economic and financial conditions and that such behavior should continue to be monitored. Moreover, Committee members emphasized that they would continue to consider periodically issues related to their long-run strategy for monetary policy, even if they were no longer setting ranges for the money and debt aggregates.

In the Committee's discussion of policy for the intermeeting period ahead, all the members supported a proposal to maintain an unchanged policy stance consistent with a federal funds rate averaging about 6-1/2 percent. The increasing though still tentative indications of some slowing in aggregate demand, together with the likelihood that the earlier policy tightening actions had not yet exerted their full retarding effects on spending, were key factors in this decision. The uncertainties surrounding the outlook for the economy, notably the extent and duration of the recent moderation in spending and the effects of the appreciable tightening over the past year, including the ½ percentage point increase in the intended federal funds rate at the May meeting, reinforced the argument for leaving the stance of policy unchanged at this meeting and weighting incoming data carefully. Several members commented that a considerable amount of new information bearing on the prospective strength of the economy and the outlook for inflation would become available during the relatively long interval before the next meeting in August. Members generally saw little risk in deferring any further policy tightening move, particularly since the possibility that underlying inflation would worsen appreciably seemed remote under prevailing circumstances. Among other factors, inflation expectations had been remarkably stable despite rising energy prices, and real interest rates were already relatively elevated.

In their discussion of the balance-of-risks sentence in the press statement to be issued shortly after this meeting, all the members agreed that the latter should continue to express, as it had for every meeting earlier this year, their belief that the risks remained weighted toward rising inflation. Indications that growth in aggregate demand was moderating to a pace closer to that of potential supply were still partial and tentative, and labor markets remained unusually tight. Many Committee members noted that, based on the currently available information, additional firming of policy could well be needed at some point in the future, though a number also expressed the opinion that less tightening probably would be required than they had thought at the time of the May meeting. Several emphasized that the press release should not convey the impression that the Committee now viewed further policy tightening moves as an unlikely prospect.