In the Committee's discussion of current and prospective economic developments, members emphasized that their forecasts were subject to substantial uncertainties, dominated at this point by the geopolitical situation, but they continued to view a pickup in economic growth as a reasonable expectation for the year ahead. Household spending had been well maintained over the course of recent months, but a high degree of caution had induced business firms to continue to hold down their spending and hiring. It was suggested that the uncertainties relating to geopolitical tensions and possible war in Iraq, important factors contributing to business caution, might be at least partly resolved in the near term, helping to roll back some of the recent increase in oil prices and likely having favorable implications for consumer and business spending. Even so, the response of the economy was hard to anticipate because of the difficulty of disentangling the effects of current geopolitical tensions from the underlying momentum of the economy. Moreover, even a short and successful military campaign could give rise to a variety of disruptions that might limit at least for a time an improvement in business and consumer confidence.

The members nonetheless saw a number of favorable factors that could be expected to foster a relatively robust economic expansion over time. These included a stimulative monetary policy along with generally accommodative financial conditions, the prospect of additional fiscal stimulus, an increasing need for expenditures by business firms to replace depreciated equipment and to maintain acceptable inventory levels, and continued vigorous growth in productivity that would support profits and incomes. With regard to the outlook for inflation, prospective growth of spending in line with the members' forecasts likely would continue to be associated with only muted pressures on labor and other resources over the year ahead, and given current trends in productivity, members anticipated that consumer price inflation would remain subdued; indeed, modest further disinflation might occur over the year ahead.

In preparing for the semiannual monetary policy report to Congress, the Board members and Reserve Bank presidents provided individual projections of the growth of GDP, civilian unemployment, and consumer price inflation for the year 2003. The members agreed that because of the unusual uncertainties that clouded their current forecasts, the latter should be viewed as having extremely wide confidence bands. Their forecasts envisaged a strengthening economic recovery but not one that was likely to induce a material, if any, decline in the unemployment rate over the year ahead. Their forecasts of growth in real GDP for 2003 had a central tendency of 3-1/4 to 3-1/2 percent and a full range of 3 to 3-3/4 percent, measured as the change between the fourth quarter of 2002 and the fourth quarter of 2003. Their projections of the civilian unemployment rate in the fourth quarter of the year were all in a range of 5-3/4 to 6 percent. Their forecasts of consumer price inflation for the year, as measured by the PCE chain-type price index, were centered in a range of 1-1/4 to 1-1/2 percent, with a full range of 1-1/4 to 1-3/4 percent.

In the Committee's discussion of developments in key sectors of the economy, members continued to place emphasis on the critical role of business spending and hiring decisions in determining the strength of the expansion. An elevated level of business caution clearly was holding back investment spending, and there were few signs of a pickup in the near term. Given an eventual reduction in prevailing uncertainties, however, a number of members noted that the outlook for business spending was favorable, and they did not rule out a sharp snapback in business expenditures as the year progressed. Factors cited in support of this view included the wide availability and low cost of capital, the increasing need for replacing worn and outdated capital equipment with the passage of time, a decline in overall stocks of capital in relation to the economy's growing potential, and the anticipated continuation of what appeared to be an upward trend in sales, cash flows, and profits. Some members also referred to the positive effects on some business decisions of the temporary federal tax incentives for expenditures on business equipment and software. The members agreed that the strength and timing of the prospective improvement remained subject to a high degree of uncertainty. Indeed, a number of members commented that it was possible that some easing of geopolitical tensions would not lead to a major near-term upturn in business confidence and business expenditures. Such an outcome would be especially likely if oil supplies were disrupted, a threat that could not be ruled out, with adverse consequences for oil prices and business costs. Moreover, the current excess capacity would permit many firms to meet likely demands for some period of time without a significant increase in capital investments.

The evident uncertainty and pessimism in the business community were also reflected in tight inventory control policies. Despite continuing gains in final sales, inventories were estimated to have changed little in the fourth quarter and currently were at levels that were widely viewed as unusually low in relation to sales. In these circumstances, an easing at some point of current uncertainties and strengthening confidence should induce inventory rebuilding, with positive implications, at least for a time, for the expansion of economic activity.

The household sector had continued to provide vital support to overall demand in recent months despite a deteriorating trend in consumer confidence. While numerous contacts reported generally disappointing holiday sales in an environment of atypically large and widespread discounting, a surge in motor vehicle sales in December fostered by aggressive sales incentives and some pickup in retail sales late in the holiday season helped to sustain moderate overall growth in consumer spending through the year-end. Looking ahead, a number of factors seemed likely to undergird consumer spending, including the positive effects on permanent incomes of robust ongoing growth in productivity, the possibly accelerated phase-in of tax reductions stemming from earlier legislation, the prospects for additional reductions in federal taxes affecting household incomes, and more generally the continued favorable effects of low interest rates and widely available financing on consumer purchases of motor vehicles and other durables. At the same time, some members expressed concern about the potential for adverse effects on consumer incomes and confidence should stagnant conditions persist in labor markets and equity markets weaken further. Reference also was made to the possibility suggested by some analysts that the value of housing wealth might be leveling off. In that event mortgage refinancings might moderate once mortgage rates stabilized, reducing the impetus to consumer spending from this source.

Statistical indicators of housing activity and anecdotal reports from numerous parts of the country pointed to persisting strength in homebuilding, with no signs of a slowdown in most areas. Members generally anticipated that activity in this sector of the economy would be well maintained in the context of low mortgage rates and further growth in incomes, but a few expressed reservations about forecasts of a further pickup this year.

The members anticipated the enactment of new legislation that would add to the fiscal stimulus that was already incorporated in earlier legislation. While greater fiscal stimulus appeared to be desirable to counter near-term weakness in the economy, the new legislation probably could not be enacted in time to begin to exert an expansionary impact on the economy before the latter part of this year when the anticipated strengthening of the economy might already be well under way. Members also observed that, given the competing legislative proposals currently under consideration, the eventual components and size of that legislation were very uncertain at this point, though they were likely to be importantly influenced by the performance of the economy and especially labor market conditions over coming months. A number of members expressed the hope that the legislation would not encompass provisions that would lead to permanently large federal deficits with negative consequences for the economy over the longer term.

As they had at previous meetings, members also commented on the severe fiscal problems being experienced by numerous state and local governments. It was noted that state revenue shortfalls were being aggravated by federally mandated costs related to homeland security that were not, at least currently, being reimbursed by the federal government. Another problem related to certain tax proposals under consideration in the Congress, notably the exclusion of dividends from income, that could have adverse consequences for the revenues of numerous state and local governments that linked their taxable incomes to those reported on federal returns. More generally, while state and local efforts to redress budget imbalances were likely to offset only a small part of the probable stimulus in forthcoming federal legislation, some members commented that those efforts might well involve more fiscal restraint than was currently foreseen by some analysts.

Largely reflecting their expectations of ongoing, albeit diminishing, slack in labor and product markets, the members anticipated that consumer price inflation probably would edge down over the next several quarters from an already low level. Members also referred to a number of crosscurrents bearing on the outlook for prices that included the adverse effects of recent declines in the dollar and higher oil prices but also the opposing effects of a strong uptrend in productivity and highly competitive markets in holding down prices and costs. With regard to labor costs, members cited anecdotal evidence of persisting weakness in numerous regional labor markets and, given the current reluctance of employers to add to their workforces, the prospect that job gains and labor compensation would tend to lag the anticipated strengthening in economic activity, as they often had in the past.

In the Committee's discussion of policy for the intermeeting period, all the members supported a proposal to maintain an unchanged policy stance. While the economy had continued to grow slowly, monetary policy and overall financial conditions had remained accommodative and the prospects for an appreciable strengthening of the economic expansion over time were favorable. As some of the prevailing uncertainties currently impairing spending began to lift, possibly in the near term with regard to military developments in the Middle East, the Committee should be in a much better position to assess the underlying strength of the economy and the appropriate policy response. At this point, the Committee could not rule out a range of plausible economic outcomes, including the possibility of a persisting subpar economic performance or a much stronger than forecast acceleration of the expansion. Indeed, the Committee could envision circumstances when it might find it desirable to adjust its policy stance substantially and promptly in one direction or the other in the months ahead. The members concluded that a wait-and-see policy stance was desirable pending an improved basis for judging the ongoing performance of the economy. They also agreed that the accommodative stance of policy, developments over the intermeeting period, and their current forecasts in the context of tensions abroad argued for retaining a balanced risks assessment to be included in the statement that would be made public shortly after this meeting.