At its meeting on December 10, 2002, the Committee adopted a directive that called for maintaining conditions in reserve markets consistent with keeping the federal funds rate around 1-1/4 percent and retained an assessment that the risks to its longer-term objectives were balanced. The Committee noted that monetary policy was quite accommodative and well positioned to support a strengthening economic expansion in line with the members' expectations for coming quarters. The Committee's decision was widely anticipated and elicited little reaction. Financial markets were sensitive, however, to shifting perceptions of global risks, economic releases that generally were seen as having a disappointing tone, pessimistic expectations for fourth-quarter corporate profits, and the Administration's announcement of an economic stimulus package larger than had been anticipated. Against that backdrop, longer-term Treasury yields declined somewhat while, in private debt markets, a sense of reduced concern about governance issues and perhaps some increased appetite for risk-taking led to a substantial decline in yields across the credit spectrum that further narrowed risk spreads. Major stock price indexes moved widely during the intermeeting period, but most finished the period a little lower.

The dollar depreciated substantially in terms of an index of major foreign currencies, with particularly large declines against the euro, the yen, and the Swiss franc. Market worries about growing tensions over Iraq and North Korea appeared to be a key factor, but concerns about the downbeat tone of recent U.S. economic data and the potential vulnerability of the dollar to a general pullback of international capital further damped market sentiment. The drop of the dollar occurred despite continued signs of weak growth in the euro area and Japan and sizable reductions in the yields of their long-term government securities.

Growth of M2 fell considerably in December. Much of the deceleration was concentrated in the liquid components of the aggregate, likely reflecting in part an adjustment in the volume of mortgage refinancings and the associated prepayments on mortgage-backed securities.