The information reviewed at this meeting suggested that economic growth was very slow in the fourth quarter. Housing demand and consumer spending firmed toward the end of the year, but capital spending remained quite weak in an environment of substantial business uncertainty and pessimism. A sharp drop in motor vehicle output held down overall industrial production, and the labor market deteriorated further. Core consumer price inflation continued to decline through the end of the year.

Private nonfarm payroll employment fell again in December and was at its lowest level since September 1999. Job losses in manufacturing continued to be sizable, and employment in retail trade plunged, although part of that decline might have been attributable to lower-than-usual hiring of temporary sales help for the holiday season. By contrast, hiring in the services industry picked up, and employment in the finance, insurance, and real estate group continued to expand. The unemployment rate held at 6 percent in December, a level consistent with other labor market indicators.

Industrial production slowed a little further in December, reflecting another sharp drop in motor vehicle assemblies and a decline in electricity generation. Excluding motor vehicles and parts, manufacturing output increased slightly following small declines in October and November. Production of high-tech goods continued to rise in December, and output in industries other than high-tech and transportation increased for the first time since August. Despite the uptick in production in some areas of manufacturing, capacity utilization in manufacturing fell again in December and was substantially below its long-run average.

Retail sales increased appreciably in November and December even though disposable personal income posted relatively modest gains and readings on consumer confidence were generally low. Purchases of new motor vehicles were brisk and were accompanied by moderate further increases in other categories of retail sales.

Residential housing activity remained strong through the end of the year, despite continued sluggish employment and additional declines in household wealth. With mortgage rates remaining near historical lows, single-family housing starts increased further in November and December, and the backlog of unused permits along with other information suggested that starts likely would remain strong in coming months. New home sales reached yet another record high in December, and existing home sales neared their record level established in January 2002. In the multifamily sector, starts rebounded in November and December from a sharp drop in October. Nonetheless, multifamily homebuilding was at a relatively low level at year-end, reflecting falling rents and high vacancy rates.

Business spending on equipment and software appeared to have little or no forward momentum in the fourth quarter and to have been weaker than might have been suggested by the recent pattern of business output, corporate cash flow, and the user cost of capital. Both shipments of and orders for nondefense capital goods turned down in the fourth quarter, with aircraft and communications equipment registering the steepest declines in shipments. In the nonresidential sector, construction activity slowed only a little further in October and November following a sharp drop in the third quarter. However, current weakness in rents and property values suggested continued deterioration in activity.

The book value of manufacturing and trade inventories excluding motor vehicles dropped sharply in October and changed little in November. Manufacturers trimmed stocks in both months, though durable goods manufacturers increased their inventories sharply in December. Wholesalers cut their inventories substantially in October and held them steady in November. Retail inventories changed little over the two-month period. Aggregate inventory-sales ratios in all three categories remained at very low levels.

The U.S. trade deficit in goods and services widened significantly in November, with the value of imports rising more than that of exports. Combining October and November, imports increased from the third-quarter average while exports declined somewhat. Available information on economic activity abroad in the fourth quarter suggested slower growth on average in the major foreign economies. Economic expansion in Japan appeared to have slowed markedly, and growth in the euro area remained sluggish. By contrast, the Canadian economy continued to expand briskly while activity in the United Kingdom seemed to be growing more moderately. In the emerging market economies, conditions in South America were generally still fragile, the pace of economic recovery in Mexico appeared to have slowed, and growth had softened in much of emerging Asia. Economic growth in China remained strong.

Core consumer price inflation, as measured by the consumer price index (CPI) and the chain-weighted personal consumption expenditure (PCE) index, continued to edge lower through the end of the year. However, the sizable run-up in energy prices last year boosted overall consumer price inflation somewhat on a year-over-year basis. At the producer level, core prices for finished goods declined in November and December, but for the year as a whole the jump in energy prices pushed overall producer prices for finished goods up slightly. With regard to labor costs, average hourly earnings of production or nonsupervisory workers increased moderately in December, but the change in those earnings over the year was considerably smaller than in 2001, evidently reflecting the slack in labor markets.