In conjunction with this FOMC meeting, all meeting participants--the five members of the Board of Governors and the presidents of the 12 Federal Reserve Banks--provided projections of economic growth, the unemployment rate, and consumer price inflation for each year from 2010 through 2012 and over a longer horizon. Longer-run projections represent each participant's assessment of the rate to which each variable would be expected to converge over time under appropriate monetary policy and in the absence of further shocks. Participants' forecasts through 2012 and over the longer run are described in the Summary of Economic Projections, which is attached as an addendum to these minutes.

In their discussion of the economic situation and outlook, meeting participants agreed that the incoming data and information received from business contacts indicated that economic activity continued to strengthen and the labor market was beginning to improve. Although some of the recent data on economic activity had been better than anticipated, most participants saw the incoming information as broadly in line with their earlier projections for moderate growth; accordingly, their views on the economic outlook had not changed appreciably. Participants expected the economic recovery to continue, but, consistent with experience following previous financial crises, most anticipated that the pickup in output would be rather slow relative to past recoveries from deep recessions. A moderate pace of expansion, in turn, would imply only a modest improvement in the labor market this year, with the unemployment rate declining gradually. Most participants again projected that the economy would grow somewhat faster in 2011 and 2012, generating a more pronounced decline in the unemployment rate. In light of stable longer-term inflation expectations and the likely continuation of substantial resource slack, policymakers anticipated that both overall and core inflation would remain subdued through 2012, with measured inflation somewhat below rates that policymakers considered to be consistent over the longer run with the Federal Reserve's dual mandate.

Participants expected that economic growth would continue: Recent data pointed to significant gains in retail sales, business spending on equipment and software had picked up substantially, and reports from business contacts and regional surveys indicated that production was increasing briskly in many sectors. Participants agreed that the growth in real GDP appeared to reflect a strengthening of private final demand and not just fiscal stimulus and a slower pace of inventory decumulation; this welcome development lessened policymakers' concerns about the economy's ability to maintain a self-sustaining recovery without government support. Businesses appeared to be gaining confidence in the economic recovery, and narrowing credit spreads in private debt markets were allowing low policy rates to be reflected more fully in the cost of capital. At the same time, rising stock prices and the apparent stabilization of house prices were helping to repair household balance sheets. As a result, consumers and firms were beginning to satisfy demands for durable goods and capital equipment that had been postponed during the economic downturn. Many participants noted that employment had increased in recent months, and that they expected a further firming of labor market conditions going forward. A stronger labor market could continue to boost consumer and business confidence and so contribute to further gains in spending.

Although these developments were positive, participants noted several factors that likely would continue to restrain expansion in economic activity and posed some downside risks. The recent increase in consumer spending appeared to be supported importantly by pent-up demands and possibly by other temporary factors, such as unusually large income tax refunds. With the personal saving rate having dropped back to a relatively low level, it seemed unlikely that consumer spending would be the major factor driving growth as the recovery progressed. Moreover, the recovery in the housing market appeared to have stalled in recent months despite various forms of government support. Although residential real estate values seemed to be stabilizing and in some areas had reportedly moved higher, housing sales and starts had leveled off in recent months at depressed levels. Some participants saw the possibility of elevated foreclosures adding to the already very large inventory of vacant homes as posing a downside risk to home prices, thereby limiting the extent of the pickup in residential investment for a while.

In the business sector, prospects for nonresidential construction outside the energy sector remained weak. Commercial real estate activity continued to fall in most parts of the country as a result of deteriorating fundamentals, including declining occupancy and rental rates and tight credit conditions. However, a number of participants noted that investment in equipment and software had been strengthening, and they relayed anecdotal information from their business contacts that suggested continued growth in orders for capital equipment.

Business investment was expected to be supported by improved conditions in financial markets. Large firms with access to capital markets appeared to be having little difficulty in obtaining credit, and in many cases they also had ample retained earnings with which to fund their operations and investment. However, many participants noted that while financial markets had improved, bank lending was still contracting and credit remained tight for many borrowers. Smaller firms in particular reportedly continued to face substantial difficulty in obtaining bank loans. Because such firms tend to be more dependent on commercial banks for financing, participants saw limited credit availability as a potential constraint on future investment and hiring by small businesses, which normally are a significant source of employment growth in recoveries. Some participants noted that many small and regional banks were vulnerable to deteriorating performance of commercial real estate loans.

Economic conditions abroad, especially in several emerging Asian economies, continued to strengthen in recent months, contributing to gains in U.S. exports. However, participants saw the escalation of fiscal strains in Greece and spreading concerns about other peripheral European countries as weighing on financial conditions and confidence in the euro area. If other European countries responded by intensifying their fiscal consolidation efforts, the result would likely be slower growth in Europe and potentially a weaker global economic recovery. Some participants expressed concern that a crisis in Greece or in some other peripheral European countries could have an adverse effect on U.S. financial markets, which could also slow the recovery in this country.

Developments in labor markets were positive over the intermeeting period. Nonfarm payrolls posted a modest gain in March, and the upturn in private employment was widespread across industries. Nevertheless, participants remained concerned about elevated unemployment, including high levels of long-term unemployment and permanent separations, which were seen as potentially leading to the loss of worker skills and greater needs for labor reallocation that could slow employment growth going forward. Moreover, information from business contacts generally underscored the degree to which firms' reluctance to add to payrolls or start large capital projects reflected uncertainty about the economic outlook and future government policies. A number of participants pointed out that the economic recovery could eventually lose traction without a substantial pickup in job creation.

Participants cited a wide array of evidence as indications that underlying inflation remained subdued. The latest readings on core inflation--which exclude the relatively volatile prices of food and energy--were generally lower than they had anticipated. One participant noted that core inflation had been held down in recent quarters by unusually slow increases in the price index for shelter, and that the recent behavior of core inflation might be a misleading signal of the underlying inflation trend. However, a number of participants pointed out that the recent moderation in price changes was widespread across many categories of spending and was evident in measures that exclude the most extreme price movements in each period. In addition, survey measures of longer-term inflation expectations remained fairly stable, wage growth continued to be restrained, and unit labor costs were still falling; reports from business contacts also suggested that pricing power remained limited. Against this backdrop, most participants anticipated that substantial resource slack and stable longer-term inflation expectations would likely keep inflation subdued for some time.

Participants' assessments of the risks to the inflation outlook were mixed. Some participants saw the risks to inflation as tilted to the downside in the near term, reflecting the quite elevated level of economic slack and the possibility that inflation expectations could begin to decline in response to the low level of actual inflation. Others, however, saw the balance of risks as pointing to potentially higher inflation and cited pressures on commodity and energy prices associated with expanding global economic activity as an upside inflation risk; some also noted the possibility that inflation expectations could rise as a result of the public's concerns about the extraordinary size of the Federal Reserve's balance sheet in a period of very large federal budget deficits. While survey measures of longer-term inflation expectations had been fairly stable, some market-based measures of inflation expectations and inflation risk suggested increased concern among market partici-pants about higher inflation. To keep inflation expectations well anchored, all participants agreed that it was important for policy to be responsive to changes in the economic outlook and for the Federal Reserve to continue to communicate clearly its ability and intent to begin withdrawing monetary policy accommodation at the appropriate time and pace.