The decision by the FOMC at the March meeting to keep the target range for the federal funds rate unchanged and to retain the "extended period" language in the statement was largely anticipated by market participants. However, some market participants reportedly interpreted the retention of the "extended period" language as pointing to a longer period of low rates than previously expected, and Eurodollar futures rates temporarily declined a bit in response.

On balance over the intermeeting period, the expected path of policy edged down slightly. Yields on 2-year and 10-year nominal Treasury securities posted small mixed changes amid some volatility that reportedly reflected evolving views about the U.S. fiscal outlook, prospects for U.S. economic growth, and the fiscal situation in peripheral European countries. Inflation compensation--the difference between nominal Treasury yields and yields on TIPS--rose some over the period, but survey measures of longer-term inflation expectations were about unchanged.

Overall, conditions in short-term funding markets remained generally stable during the intermeeting period. Spreads between London interbank offered rates (Libor) and overnight index swap (OIS) rates were about unchanged at levels near those that prevailed in late 2007, although they began to edge up in the final days of the intermeeting period. Spreads in the commercial paper market were little changed. Equity indexes rose, on balance, over the intermeeting period, with bank shares outperforming the broader market. Stock prices were supported by somewhat better-than-expected macroeconomic data and a favorable response by investors to the initial batch of first-quarter earnings reports, especially those of banking institutions. Option-implied volatility on the S&P 500 index generally declined over the period but jumped at end of April on renewed concerns regarding the fiscal situation in Greece. The gap between the staff's estimate of the expected real equity return over the next 10 years for S&P 500 firms and the real 10-year Treasury yield--a rough measure of the equity risk premium--remained well above its average over the past decade. Yields on investment-grade corporate bonds edged down, leaving their spreads to comparable-maturity Treasury securities a bit lower, at levels around those that prevailed in late 2007. Consistent with more-favorable investor sentiment toward risky assets, yields and spreads on speculative-grade corporate bonds declined, and secondary market prices of syndicated leveraged loans rose further.

Overall, net debt financing by nonfinancial firms was positive in March. Issuance of nonfinancial bonds surged, and net issuance of commercial paper rebounded appreciably. Net equity issuance by nonfinancial firms was negative again in the first quarter as the solid pace of gross public issuance was more than offset by equity retirements from both cash-financed mergers and share repurchases. Financial firms issued a significant volume of debt securities in the first quarter and also raised a moderate amount of gross funds in the equity market, a pattern that appeared to continue in the first half of April. Credit quality in the commercial real estate sector continued to deteriorate as the delinquency rate for securitized commercial mortgages increased again in March. The decline in outstanding commercial mortgage debt in the fourth quarter of last year was the largest on record. Nonetheless, indexes of prices for credit default swaps on commercial mortgage-backed securities ticked up noticeably over the period, in line with the overall reduction in financial market risk premiums.

The conclusion of purchases under the Federal Reserve's agency MBS program had only a modest market effect. Over the intermeeting period, spreads on agency MBS retraced much of the increase seen around the time of the program's conclusion, ending the period roughly unchanged. The factors contributing to the recent narrowing of MBS and mortgage spreads included the low level of mortgage originations, which damped the supply of new MBS, and Fannie Mae's and Freddie Mac's increased purchases of mortgages through their buyouts of delinquent loans. Consumer credit continued to trend lower in recent months, pushed down by a steep decline in revolving credit. Spreads on high-quality credit card and auto loan asset-backed securities (ABS) edged down over the period, with little upward pressure evident from the end of the portion of the Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility supporting ABS. Nonetheless, fewer ABS were issued in the first quarter than in the fourth quarter, reflecting continued weakness in loan originations. Delinquency rates on consumer loans edged down further in February but remained very elevated. Spreads of interest rates on credit cards over yields on two-year Treasury securities continued to drift upward, while interest rates on new auto loans at dealerships and their spreads over yields on five-year Treasury securities extended their previous decline.

After adjusting to remove the effects of banks' adoption of Financial Accounting Standards 166 and 167, bank credit contracted again in March, as both loans and securities holdings declined. 2 The contraction in commercial and industrial loans remained pronounced. The drop in commercial real estate loans persisted, reflecting weak fundamentals that limited originations as well as charge-offs of existing loans. Residential real estate loans also decreased further in March, as did credit card loans and other consumer loans.

M2 fell in March, reflecting a slowing in the expansion of liquid deposits along with a further contraction in small time deposits and a steep runoff in retail money market mutual funds. Currency grew at a moderate pace, likely as a result of continued demand for U.S. banknotes from abroad coupled with solid domestic demand. The monetary base contracted as the effect on reserves of purchases under the Federal Reserve's large-scale asset purchase programs was more than offset by a further contraction in credit outstanding under liquidity and credit facilities and an increase in the Treasury's balances at the Federal Reserve.

Until the intensification of the Greek crisis near the end of the intermeeting period, equity indexes were higher in nearly all countries, and emerging-market risk spreads had generally declined. These moves appeared to reflect growing confidence that the global recovery was gaining momentum, particularly in emerging market economies. However, sovereign debt spreads in Greece, Portugal, and other peripheral European countries widened in the days leading up to the April FOMC meeting, as investor anxiety about the fiscal situation in those countries increased. Downgrades to the credit ratings of Greece and Portugal weighed on investor sentiment, and global markets retraced some of their earlier gains.

Over the intermeeting period, the Bank of Japan doubled the size of its three-month fixed-rate funds facility, the Bank of Canada dropped its conditional commitment to keeping rates steady through the first half of the year, and the Reserve Bank of Australia raised its policy rate. The trade-weighted value of the dollar changed little, on net; gains against the euro and yen were offset by declines against many emerging market currencies.