The FOMC's "Plans for Reducing the Size of the Federal Reserve's Balance Sheet," announced in May 2022, indicated that the Committee intended to cease balance sheet runoff when reserve balances are judged to be somewhat above a level consistent with ample reserves. Since then, the size of the Federal Reserve's balance sheet had declined substantially. In addition, money market conditions had tightened recently, which suggested that reserve balances may be moving closer to ample. In light of these developments, participants discussed whether to stop balance sheet runoff soon and what the maturity composition of the SOMA Treasury portfolio (SOMA portfolio) should be in the longer run. Views on the latter would guide the investment of principal payments received on the Federal Reserve's holdings of agency securities as well as the composition of securities to be purchased once reserve management purchases would be needed. Consequently, participants agreed that their discussions at this meeting would help inform the Committee's future decisions regarding the long-run composition of the SOMA portfolio.

The participants' discussion was preceded by a staff presentation. The staff reviewed the composition of the SOMA portfolio and provided some considerations regarding the SOMA portfolio's long-run composition, including issues related to market functioning, potential macroeconomic implications, interactions with the Treasury's management of the federal debt, monetary policy implementation, and the Federal Reserve's net income. The presentation noted that the current share of Treasury bills in the SOMA portfolio was smaller than the bill share of total Treasury securities outstanding. The staff also noted that if the Committee preferred a SOMA portfolio with a proportional or greater share of Treasury bills relative to total outstanding, policymakers could wait to make that decision because the current share of Treasury bills in the portfolio was small and the monthly amounts of principal payments received on the Federal Reserve's holdings of agency securities that would need to be reinvested once balance sheet runoff stopped were modest.

Participants agreed that the recent tightening in money market conditions indicated that it would soon be appropriate to end balance sheet runoff and that reinvestments of principal payments received on agency securities holdings should be directed into Treasury bills. Various participants highlighted the need to continue to monitor money market conditions. Participants also agreed that a larger share of Treasury bills than the current portfolio allocation would be desirable in the long run. A larger share of Treasury bills would shift the SOMA portfolio composition toward that of Treasury securities outstanding. Many participants indicated that a greater share of Treasury bills could provide the Federal Reserve with more flexibility to accommodate changes in the demand for reserves or changes in nonreserve liabilities and thereby help to maintain an ample level of reserves. Several participants also noted that a greater share of Treasury bills could increase flexibility for future monetary policy accommodation without having to raise the level of reserves. The majority of participants indicated that a larger share of Treasury bills would also reduce Federal Reserve income volatility.

Some participants indicated that during a transition phase, purchases to reach a larger share of Treasury bills in the SOMA portfolio could reduce the availability of short-term Treasury securities to the private sector and potentially affect market functioning. They thus favored a measured approach to purchasing Treasury bills. A couple of other participants noted the absence of market functioning problems in past episodes when purchases focused on Treasury bills. A number of participants noted that the expected pace of paydowns of agency securities in the near term was around only $15 billion to $20 billion per month, and that redirecting these proceeds into Treasury bills once balance sheet runoff ended likely would not adversely affect market functioning.

Overall, most participants favored a long-run composition of the SOMA portfolio that matched the composition of Treasury securities outstanding, indicating that a proportional allocation would provide enough flexibility and may be simpler to communicate. Some participants indicated that they favored a larger-than-proportional share of Treasury bills, citing the benefits of having even greater flexibility than available under a proportional allocation. Various participants noted that it was not necessary to decide on the long-run composition of the SOMA portfolio at this time, as the shift toward a long-run composition would take place over a number of years.