The information available at the time of the meeting indicated that growth of real gross domestic product (GDP) had moderated over the first half of the year. Information on the labor market was limited by the federal government shutdown; however, available indicators were consistent with a continued gradual cooling in the labor market without any evidence of a sharp deterioration. Consumer price inflation had moved up since earlier in the year and remained somewhat elevated.

Total consumer price inflation—as measured by the 12-month change in the price index for personal consumption expenditures (PCE)—was estimated to have been 2.8 percent in September based on data from the consumer price index. Core PCE price inflation, which excludes changes in consumer energy prices and many consumer food prices, was also estimated to have been 2.8 percent in September. These estimates implied that total PCE price inflation had risen 0.5 percentage point relative to a year ago and that core PCE inflation was unchanged from its year-earlier rate.

Real GDP posted a strong gain in the second quarter following a decline in the first quarter, although the average increase over the first half of the year was slower than the average pace seen over 2024. Real private domestic final purchases (PDFP)—which comprises PCE and private fixed investment and which often provides a better signal of underlying economic momentum than GDP—had risen faster than GDP over the first half but had also slowed relative to its 2024 rate of increase. PDFP growth appeared to have continued at a solid pace in the third quarter, though the government shutdown had reduced the amount of data that was available to gauge third-quarter economic activity. Available data suggested that net exports positively contributed to GDP growth in the third quarter. After falling sharply in the second quarter and then rising somewhat in July, real imports of goods appeared to have resumed falling in August. U.S. real goods exports appeared to have declined moderately in August after having increased modestly in the first half of the year. The government shutdown was expected to reduce GDP growth for as long as it continued, with a corresponding boost to growth once the government reopened and government production and purchases returned to normal levels.

Recent activity indicators suggested that foreign real GDP growth slowed in the third quarter relative to the first half of the year. Growth in China softened amid fading fiscal stimulus and a persistent property-sector downturn, while indicators in Europe continued to point to subdued activity. Slower foreign growth was driven in part by weaker exports due to reduced U.S. demand and lower investment due to elevated uncertainty, likely reflecting the effects of the U.S. tariffs. Growth in some foreign economies, especially in Mexico and parts of Asia, was supported by continued strong demand for high-tech products, originating primarily from the U.S.

Headline inflation was near central banks' targets in many foreign economies, aided by declines in global energy prices. However, core inflation remained elevated in some economies, notably Brazil, Mexico, and the U.K. By contrast, inflation in China continued to be subdued. In response to lackluster economic activity, some foreign central banks—including the Bank of Canada, the Sveriges Riksbank, and the Bank of Mexico—cut their policy rates further over the intermeeting period.