Over the intermeeting period, both the market-implied expected path of the federal funds rate through the end of 2026 and nominal Treasury yields were little changed on net. At short maturities, real yields rose somewhat as measures of inflation compensation decreased amid declines in oil prices. At longer maturities, real yields and inflation compensation were little changed on net.

Broad equity price indexes increased moderately, boosted by technology firms with positive earnings news and AI-related investor optimism. Credit spreads were little changed, on net, and remained very low by historical standards. The one-month option-implied volatility on the S&P 500 index was largely unchanged, on net, and remained near the median of its historical distribution.

Risk appetite in foreign financial markets was generally strong. On net, foreign equity indexes were moderately higher, and technology stocks outperformed in several economies, largely reflecting continued investor optimism regarding AI. Market-based policy expectations and longer-term yields declined in most major advanced foreign economies, in part because of weak economic data. By contrast, yields in Japan rose amid political developments that led to expectations for increased fiscal spending. The broad dollar index increased modestly, primarily driven by the relative strength of U.S. economic data.

Conditions in U.S. short-term funding markets tightened materially over the intermeeting period but remained orderly. Late in the period, the spread between the EFFR and the IORB reached the narrowest level since the runoff of the Federal Reserve's balance sheet began in 2022. The Secured Overnight Financing Rate occasionally printed above the minimum bid rate at the SRF, and SRF take-up occurred on several days. The average usage of the ON RRP facility fell to its lowest level since 2021. Taken together, these developments suggested that reserve balances were moving closer to ample levels.

In domestic credit markets, borrowing costs of businesses, households, and municipalities remained significantly lower than the highs observed in 2023 but elevated relative to their average post–Global Financial Crisis levels. Yields on corporate bonds and leveraged loans edged down. Rates on 30-year fixed-rate conforming residential mortgages were little changed on net. Yields on commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS) moved up modestly. Interest rates on credit card accounts edged up a touch in August.

Credit remained generally available but relatively tight for small businesses. Issuance of corporate bonds, leveraged loans, and private credit was robust in recent months. Core loans on banks' books continued to increase in the third quarter, driven primarily by strong growth in commercial and industrial (C&I) lending. In the residential mortgage market, credit remained easily available for high-credit-score borrowers but less so for low-score borrowers. Consumer credit remained generally available for most households.

Banks in the October Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices reported, on net, an easing in bank lending conditions on C&I loans for large firms and those with low exposures to international trade. Banks also eased standards for commercial real estate loans, credit cards, and auto loans over the third quarter. The overall level of bank lending standards aggregated across all loan categories was estimated to be around the median level observed since 2011.

Credit quality was generally stable at levels somewhat weaker than during the pre-pandemic period. The credit performance of corporate bonds, leveraged loans, and private credit remained stable. The use of distressed exchanges among leveraged loan borrowers and payment-in-kind interest among private credit borrowers, however, remained elevated. Delinquency rates on small business loans continued to be moderately above pre-pandemic levels, and those on CMBS remained elevated through September. Delinquency rates on most mortgage loan types, by contrast, stayed near historical lows. Credit card delinquency rates inched down in September, while auto loan delinquency rates ticked up, and both rates stood above their pre-pandemic levels.

The staff provided an updated assessment of the stability of the U.S. financial system and, on balance, continued to characterize the system's financial vulnerabilities as notable. The staff judged that asset valuation pressures were elevated. For public equities, price-to-earnings ratios stood at the upper end of their historical distribution. Nonprice indicators, such as the number of newly launched leveraged exchanged-traded products, also reflected high and broad-based investor demand for risky assets.

Vulnerabilities associated with nonfinancial business and household debt were characterized as moderate. Corporate debt grew modestly over the past few years, and household balance sheets remained strong. The rapid growth of private credit moderated somewhat, but recent bankruptcies raised concerns about credit quality and hidden leverage in this market. House prices remained high but flattened out in the past year, and the likelihood of severe distress among mortgage borrowers appeared to be notably lower than following the previous period of elevated house prices, in part because of stronger underwriting standards and near historical highs for homeowners' equity.

Vulnerabilities associated with leverage in the financial sector were characterized as notable. Hedge fund leverage, on average, remained elevated and increased further, driven by both a shift toward more leveraged strategies and an increase in leverage within strategies. Available data suggested that hedge fund exposure to Treasury markets doubled over the past two years. By contrast, banks remained resilient, with high regulatory capital ratios and improved funding structure, although their market-adjusted capital ratios remained depressed and sensitive to long-term interest rates.

Vulnerabilities associated with funding risks were characterized as moderate. The amount of total short-run funding instruments and cash management vehicles as a fraction of GDP grew in recent years but remained in the middle of its historical range. The total market capitalization of stablecoins, some of which may be vulnerable to runs, grew significantly in the past two years.