The information reviewed at this meeting suggested that the economy expanded at a rapid pace in the first quarter. Consumer spending and the housing market continued to exhibit strength. Business fixed investment grew smartly, reflecting increased outlays for equipment and software that more than offset a significant fall in investment in nonresidential structures. The labor market displayed further signs of improvement during the quarter, capped by a significant increase in private payrolls in March. Recent increases in the prices of imports and commodities showed through to a pickup in core consumer price inflation during the first quarter, although some of the categories that registered large gains had posted unusually small increases earlier.

The labor market showed renewed vigor during the first quarter. The growth in payroll employment during March pushed the average monthly gain for the first quarter as a whole well above that of the fourth quarter of last year. Hiring during the quarter was widespread across industries, with large increases in construction, retail trade, and business and nonbusiness services. Net job losses in manufacturing, which had waned during the winter, reportedly came to an end by March. Some surveys of business hiring intentions also suggested renewed strength. However, a small decline in the average workweek during March held down the increase in aggregate hours, which rose at a slightly slower pace in the first quarter than in the fourth quarter. Moreover, the unemployment rate ticked up to 5.7 percent in March, and the labor force participation rate remained low.

Despite a weather-related decline in output at utilities during March, the pace of industrial production quickened during the first quarter, and the gains were widespread across industry and market groups. The high-tech sector accounted for a significant part of the increase, as output of computers and semiconductors rose rapidly. Production of other business equipment also increased markedly, and indexes for business and construction supplies were up notably. Motor vehicle assemblies were slightly higher for the first quarter as a whole, although they slowed in March. Manufacturing capacity utilization rose for the second consecutive quarter, but to a rate well below its long-run average. Available weekly physical product data for April were up slightly.

Real consumer spending grew at a somewhat faster pace in the first quarter than it had in the fourth quarter. Retail sales rose briskly, with strength widespread across spending categories, while expenditures on services also posted a substantial increase. Light vehicle sales were down slightly for the first quarter as a whole, but they firmed in March. Solid growth in wages and salaries and an increase in tax refunds generated a large increase in real disposable personal income in the first quarter. Measures of consumer confidence were roughly stable in March and April.

Residential housing activity remained high in the first quarter despite a marked rise in mortgage interest rates. Smoothing through weather-related swings in the volatile monthly data, the underlying pace of single-family housing starts continued to display appreciable strength. Sales of new homes jumped to a record level in March, and sales of existing homes increased to their highest level since last September. In the multifamily sector, construction activity also remained robust through March, even though the vacancy rate for multifamily units reached a record high in the first quarter.

Business fixed investment continued to be supported by favorable underlying fundamentals, including increased corporate cash flow, a low user cost of capital, and, at least as judged by survey data, increased business confidence in the sustainability of the economic expansion. Outlays for equipment and software expanded at a vigorous pace in the first quarter, with the exception of spending on transportation equipment. Shipments of nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft were strong, especially outside the high-tech industries. Within the high-tech sectors, rapid growth of shipments of communications equipment offset declines in the computers and peripherals category. By contrast, investment in nonresidential structures fell considerably in the first quarter, and vacancy rates for industrial buildings and office properties remained high.

Real nonfarm inventories increased a bit more in the first quarter than they had in the fourth quarter. Motor vehicle inventories at the retail and wholesale levels accounted for the entire increase, while non-auto inventories ran off slightly. In particular, manufacturers continued to reduce their stocks, though at a slower pace than last year. Inventory accumulation lagged growth in sales and shipments, and the inventory-sales ratio edged down further.

The U.S. international trade deficit shrank in February from January's record high, with exports increasing across a range of major categories of goods. Economic growth in the major industrialized countries in the first quarter was uneven. The economies of Japan and the United Kingdom likely continued to expand, though at paces below those of late last year. In the euro area, economic indicators were mixed. A moderation of growth in Canada led the Bank of Canada to ease monetary policy for the third time this year, citing a need to support aggregate demand. Inflation was little changed in Canada and the euro area, but it slipped further in the United Kingdom. In Japan, consumer prices were about unchanged, while wholesale prices edged up in March relative to their level of a year earlier and posted the first increase on a twelve-month basis since July 2000.

In the United States, the core consumer price index advanced at a faster rate in the first quarter than it had in the fourth quarter, reflecting the pass-through of higher energy prices and a leveling off of goods prices after sizable declines last year. The higher goods price inflation owed, in part, to the recent run-up in the prices of non-oil imports, energy, and other commodities. The price index for core personal consumption expenditures also rose at a faster rate in the first quarter than it had late last year. Despite the rise in inflation this year, however, the cumulative increase in the overall consumer price index for the year ending in March was somewhat less than the advance for the twelve months ending in March 2003. In the year ending in March, the increase in the price index for total personal consumption expenditures was similar to that of a year earlier. Survey measures of near-term inflation expectations edged up somewhat in March and April, but measures of longer-term expectations decreased. With regard to labor costs, average hourly earnings of production or nonsupervisory workers on private nonfarm payrolls rose notably less for the twelve months ending in March than they had in the year-earlier period. The overall increase in the employment cost index for private industry for the twelve months ending in March was about the same as that for the twelve-month period ending a year earlier, as wages and salaries decelerated and benefits accelerated.