At its meeting on March 16, 2004, the Federal Open Market Committee decided to keep its target for the federal funds rate unchanged at 1 percent. In its announcement of this decision, the Committee indicated that the upside and downside risks to sustainable growth were roughly equal and that the probability of an unwelcome fall in inflation had declined further so that it was almost equal to that of a rise. The Committee also noted in March that although output had continued to expand at a solid pace, new hiring had lagged, and increases in core consumer prices were muted and expected to remain low. As a result, the Committee determined that it could remain patient in removing its policy accommodation.

The Committee's decision at its March meeting to leave the intended level of the federal funds rate unchanged had been fully anticipated in financial markets. However, market participants reportedly viewed the accompanying statement as suggesting that the Committee had a slightly weaker outlook for the economy than had been expected, and longer-dated futures rates and Treasury yields declined a few basis points after the announcement. In response to the generally positive tone of economic data-especially the release of the much stronger-than-expected employment report for March-and congressional testimony by Chairman Greenspan, investors pushed market interest rates substantially higher over the intermeeting period. By the time of the FOMC meeting in early May, quotes on federal funds futures contracts suggested that market participants expected policy tightening to begin sooner than previously anticipated and to proceed at a faster pace once it began. The revision to policy expectations showed through to interest rates on nominal Treasury securities, which climbed significantly. Yields on inflation-indexed Treasury securities rose almost as much, implying that inflation compensation only edged a little higher. Yields on investment-grade corporate bonds rose a bit less than those on comparable-maturity Treasuries, but risk spreads on below-investment-grade bonds narrowed significantly as their yields increased by a more modest amount. Major equity price indexes were about unchanged, as the downward pressure exerted by higher interest rates was offset by the effects of strong earnings reports, upward revisions to expected future earnings, and other positive economic news.

In foreign exchange markets, the dollar appreciated against most major currencies over the intermeeting period, and it also gained against an index of the currencies of other major U.S. trading partners. The dollar fell sharply against the yen early in the intermeeting period, but subsequently about reversed the decline. Market participants attributed the dollar's overall gains particularly to the stronger-than-expected U.S. economic data and the weaker-than-expected performance of the Canadian economy and economies in the euro area.

M2 grew briskly during March and April as continued low opportunity costs and the temporary effects of mortgage refinancing boosted liquid deposits. The strength was likely offset somewhat by the effects of individual non-withheld tax payments in April, which were lower than last year and therefore probably led to a smaller buildup in liquid deposits than incorporated in the seasonal adjustment factors. Although currency growth continued to be held down in the first quarter by weak demand from abroad, it moved closer to its long-term trend in April.