In the Committee's discussion of current and prospective economic developments, a number of members noted that the outlook for production and employment had improved distinctly in the period since the March FOMC meeting. Newly available data as well as commentary from business contacts almost uniformly suggested that the expansion had continued to broaden and had become more firmly established. Statistical releases confirmed that consumer spending was rising at a brisk rate, housing activity remained at a high level, and business fixed investment was growing vigorously. Significantly, the most recent data also provided evidence that the pace of hiring had begun to pick up, a development that was expected to provide further support to the expansion going forward. Anecdotal information gathered from business contacts across the nation-particularly commentary suggesting rising orders, improving confidence, and a growing willingness to increase payrolls-tended to confirm the data that pointed to increasingly solid expansion. Prospects for growth continued to be supported by fiscal policy, which was expected to remain stimulative through 2004, and by the effects of monetary policy accommodation. Overall, Committee members were now more convinced that robust growth would be sustained, and most likely at a pace that would be adequate to make appreciable headway in narrowing margins of unutilized resources. Regarding the outlook for inflation, members took particular note of recent data pointing to jumps in consumer and producer prices. Many members indicated that the surprisingly large advances had substantially reduced the odds of further disinflation and also had increased their uncertainty about prospective price trends. Still, most members saw low inflation as the most likely outcome.

In their comments about key economic sectors, a number of members pointed to developments that were likely to support increased investment spending going forward. Many business firms appeared to be experiencing a significant pickup in demand. Anecdotal information suggested that some manufacturers had seen a notable rebound in orders, with several members citing, in particular, stronger demand for high-tech products as well as for machine tools, various types of heavy machinery, and aircraft. Also, optimism regarding economic prospects among business executives seemed to be mounting, no doubt prompted in part by the increased demand they were experiencing and robust growth in profits. Business contacts in several districts had indicated that, as a result of the improved outlook, they were taking steps to expand their capacity to produce, both by starting to augment work forces and by boosting fixed investment. Committee members generally perceived overall business fixed investment as accelerating considerably, especially for equipment and software. In contrast, investment in nonresidential structures remained sluggish, as vacancy rates in many markets were elevated and considerable excess capacity persisted in many production plants. Drilling, however, was said to be strengthening in response to high oil and gas prices.

While Committee members saw an overall brightening in the outlook for business fixed investment, a number of policymakers commented that some of the considerable caution that had earlier marked business attitudes apparently lingered. The pace of hiring seemed to be picking up only gradually, fixed investment was still moderate in comparison with the strong cash flow being generated by robust profits, and anecdotal information indicated that firms in most industries were continuing to exercise tight control over inventories. Indeed, several members remarked that the rate of inventory investment was surprisingly modest in the first quarter, although motor vehicle inventories were on the high side. On the whole, the evidence of continued caution and disciplined spending in the business sector was seen as boding well for the durability of the expansion.

Members viewed the household sector as continuing to play a key role in the expansion, with recent data as well as anecdotal information indicating that consumer spending was rising at a solid pace. After dropping back in January, auto sales had accelerated over the remainder of the first quarter and appeared to be well maintained in April. Expenditures for consumer services seemed to be expanding steadily. Several members noted that tourism in their regions was picking up. In addition, housing activity had stayed strong across the nation and was still climbing in some regions, with reports of growing backlogs in deliveries and substantial price increases in some markets. The overall vigor in household spending was being supported by substantial gains in disposable income, partly reflecting tax cuts, generally sound balance sheets, accommodative financial conditions, and increases in consumer sentiment over the past year or so. To date, the backup in fixed mortgage interest rates in recent months seemed to have had little adverse effect on homebuying, although it was noted that an appreciable further rise in longer-term market rates would represent a potential source of restraint on future household spending.

Fiscal policy was viewed as likely to buoy the expansion of economic activity through 2004. Real federal expenditures had jumped in the first quarter and were expected to rise further over the balance of the year. Next year, fiscal impetus was likely to diminish, largely owing to the expiration of the tax provision permitting partial expensing of certain capital outlays. Assessing the prospects for fiscal policy, however, was complicated by a lack of legislative progress to date in passing federal appropriations bills. Regarding the longer-term federal budgetary outlook, an apparent breakdown in fiscal discipline was seen as an ongoing concern. However, some progress was noted in reducing budgetary imbalances at the state and local levels.

The external sector was expected to provide limited support for U.S. economic growth over the next two years. Expansion of foreign economies was likely to fuel increases in U.S. exports, with strength expected particularly in computers and semiconductors. Real imports, however, also appeared likely to continue rising strongly as domestic demand climbed further, leading to a widening of already substantial trade and current account deficits. Some members saw a risk that growth in certain rapidly expanding regions abroad could slow, perhaps sharply, with potentially significant effects on the demand for U.S. exports as well as on global commodity prices.

After a protracted period of meager gains in employment, conditions in the U.S. labor market evidently were improving in recent weeks. In addition to noting the substantial jump in payrolls in March, several members relayed anecdotal information from business contacts around the nation that hiring was continuing to pick up and that firms were planning further increases in workforces. Some temporary help firms reported rising demand, a possible precursor of a pickup in permanent hiring. A number of members cited reports of difficulties in hiring within certain job families in which specialized skills were in short supply together with indications that wage increases in those occupations tended to be larger than average. Even so, considerable slack seemed to remain in the labor market overall, and wage gains on the whole were moderate.

Data on consumer and producer prices over the intermeeting period had generally come in on the high side of expectations, following considerable increases in commodity prices. A significant number of Committee members reported information from their contacts that businesses were increasingly able to pass on cost increases to their customers and to boost prices more generally. Some members cited instances in which earlier price discounts had been canceled and noted that surcharges for higher energy and steel prices were being added to base prices for certain goods. Nonetheless, the extent to which these developments signaled an upturn in underlying inflation was unclear. To some degree, the recent uptick in various price measures partly reflected factors, such as jumps in the prices of energy and non-oil imports, that were unlikely to be repeated. Also, the recent evidence could be interpreted as indicating that the surprisingly sharp decline in measured inflation in 2003 exaggerated the drop in the underlying rate of inflation. Indeed, some members saw underlying inflation as relatively stable and put low odds on the possibility that prices now were accelerating. In their view, a range of factors was continuing to restrain inflation, including slack in resource utilization, strong productivity gains and corresponding downward pressures on unit labor costs, currently high price markups, and longer-term inflation expectations that apparently remained contained. Others, however, were less confident about the degree of restraint on prices, noting that inflation predictions based on estimated output or employment gaps were subject to considerable error.

In the Committee's discussion of policy for the intermeeting period, all of the members favored maintenance of the existing target of 1 percent for the federal funds rate. It was recognized that the Committee would need to initiate a process of removing monetary policy accommodation at some point, and the recent experience suggested that the time at which policy firming appropriately would commence might be closer than previously had seemed most probable. However, the appreciable rise in real long-term interest rates over the intermeeting period implied that financial market conditions had already tightened on balance. Moreover, the evidence of a significant acceleration in hiring was still limited, and some members referred to the possibility that growth could falter, particularly if market yields were to rise sharply further. With inflation low and resource use slack, the Committee saw a continuation of its existing policy stance as providing a degree of support to the economic expansion that was still appropriate.

With regard to the Committee's announcement to be released after the meeting, it was understood that the recent evidence that hiring had picked up, as well as the continued solid growth in output, would be highlighted. Policymakers also concurred that, with the expansion apparently well established, the statement should again indicate that the upside and downside risks to sustainable growth for the next few quarters seemed to be roughly equal. Members saw both downside and upside risks to prospects for inflation. The probable persistence of slack in the economy for at least several more quarters, together with the likelihood that recent substantial gains in productivity would be extended, should continue to exert slight downward pressures on inflation. At the same time, though, the recent stronger-than-expected increases in a number of price measures, anecdotal information suggesting a greater ability of businesses to implement and sustain price hikes, and multiplying signs of solid economic growth suggested that the upside risks to inflation had increased. The members agreed that, all things considered, the risks to the goal of price stability had moved into balance in the period since the last meeting.

The Committee also discussed at length the advantages and disadvantages of modifying or dropping its statement in the announcement following the March meeting that "With inflation quite low and resource use slack, the Committee believes that it can be patient in removing its policy accommodation." All of the members agreed that, with policy tightening likely to begin sooner than previously expected, the reference to patience was no longer warranted. The Committee focused instead on a formulation that would emphasize that policy tightening, once it began, probably could proceed at a pace that would be "measured." A number of policymakers were concerned that such an assertion could unduly constrain future adjustments to the stance of policy should the evidence emerging in coming months suggest that an appreciable firming would be appropriate. Others, however, saw substantial benefits to inclusion of the proposed language. These members noted that current economic circumstances made it likely that the process of returning policy to a more neutral setting would be more gradual, once under way, than in past episodes when inflation was well above levels consistent with price stability. In addition, some policymakers observed that the timing and magnitude of future policy adjustments would ultimately be determined by the Committee's interpretation of the incoming data on the economy and prices rather than by its current expectation of those developments. On balance, all the members agreed that they could accept an indication in the statement that ". . . policy accommodation can be removed at a pace that is likely to be measured."