The information reviewed at the June 23-24 meeting suggested that the economy remained very weak, though declines in activity seemed to be lessening. Employment was still falling, and manufacturers had cut production further in response to excess inventories and soft demand. But the reductions in employment and industrial production had slowed somewhat, consumer spending appeared to be holding reasonably steady after shrinking in the second half of 2008, and sales and construction of single-family homes had apparently flattened out. In addition, the recent declines in capital spending were smaller than those recorded earlier in the year. Consumer price inflation was fairly quiescent in recent months, although the upturn in energy prices appeared likely to boost headline inflation in June.

The demand for labor weakened further in May, albeit less rapidly than in earlier months. Nonfarm payrolls continued to shrink, but the decline was the smallest since September. In addition, average weekly hours of production and nonsupervisory workers on private payrolls, which had dropped substantially from September to March, were essentially unchanged in April and May. Thus aggregate hours worked by this group fell at a slower pace in April and May than on average over the previous seven months. The unemployment rate, however, rose further in May, to 9.4 percent. Despite the high level of joblessness, the labor force participation rate moved up for a second consecutive month to a level close to where it was at the beginning of the recession. The four-week moving average of initial claims for unemployment insurance fell back a little, but the number of individuals receiving unemployment insurance benefits continued to increase.

Industrial production decreased in April and May but at a slower pace than in the first quarter. Manufacturing output also fell in those months, and the factory operating rate dipped further in May. In the high-tech sector, computer output fell at a pace similar to that in the first quarter, but near-term indicators of production turned somewhat less negative and global semiconductor sales climbed in April for the second consecutive month. The production of motor vehicles and parts dropped sharply in May, principally because of extended plant shutdowns at General Motors and Chrysler. The production of commercial aircraft moved up. Outside the transportation and high-tech sectors, most industries continued to cut production in both April and May, though at a slower pace than over the preceding five months.

Real personal consumption expenditures rose somewhat in the first quarter after falling in the second half of 2008, and available data suggested that spending was holding reasonably steady in the second quarter. On the basis of the latest retail sales data, real expenditures on goods other than motor vehicles appeared to have risen slightly in May and to have changed little, on net, since the turn of the year. Sales of light motor vehicles in April and May were slightly higher than the first-quarter average. Real outlays on services were reported to have picked up some in April from the average monthly gain seen over the first three months of the year. The fundamental determinants of consumer demand appeared to have improved a bit: Despite the ongoing decline in employment, real disposable personal income rose in the first quarter and posted another sizable gain in April as various provisions of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 boosted transfer payments and reduced personal taxes. In addition, equity prices recorded substantial gains in April and May, reversing a small portion of the prior wealth declines. Measures of consumer sentiment, while remaining at levels typically seen during recessions, improved markedly from the historical lows recorded around the turn of the year.

Single-family housing starts edged up in May, and adjusted permit issuance for single-family houses was a little above the level of starts, as it had been since January. In contrast, activity in the much smaller multifamily sector fell significantly further, reflecting a sharp deterioration in the fundamentals in that sector. The steep decline in the demand for new single-family houses seemed to have abated. However, the pace of new home sales was still very low in April, and the months' supply of new homes remained quite elevated relative to sales despite a decrease in the stock of unsold new single-family homes to a level roughly one-half of its mid-2006 peak. Sales of existing single-family homes had been fairly steady from late 2008 through May. The relative stability of the resale market over this period coincided with a heightened proportion of transactions involving bank-owned and other distressed properties. The apparent stabilization in housing demand was likely due, in part, to the improvement in housing affordability that resulted from low mortgage rates and declining house prices. Rates for conforming 30-year fixed-rate mortgages rose on net between late April and late June but remained below the levels seen over most of 2008. Although the market for private-label nonprime mortgages remained closed, spreads between rates for jumbo and standard conforming loans narrowed substantially since March. Meanwhile, national house prices continued to decline.

Real investment in equipment and software (E&S) continued to contract; however, the decline in the second quarter appeared likely to be smaller than in either of the two preceding quarters. Outlays on transportation equipment seemed to be firming after shrinking for an extended period, and the incoming data on shipments and orders of nondefense capital goods pointed to a moderation in the rate of decrease in other major components of E&S. The contraction in spending on computing equipment appeared to be leveling off, although businesses continued to cut their real outlays on software. Real spending on equipment outside of high-tech and transportation seemed to have dropped less rapidly in the second quarter than in the first quarter. Data suggested a substantial increase in outlays for nonresidential construction in March and April, concentrated in energy-related sectors. Outside of the energy-related sectors, demand for nonresidential building remained extremely weak and financing difficult to obtain. Although the months' supply of nonfarm business inventories remained elevated, large production cutbacks in recent quarters allowed producers to stem the rise in stocks relative to sales. The principal determinants of investment were still weak: Business output dropped further in the first quarter, the user cost of capital was higher than it was a year earlier, and credit remained tight. However, corporate bond yields eased considerably in the weeks leading to the June meeting, and monthly surveys of business conditions and sentiment were generally less downbeat than earlier in the year.

The U.S. international trade deficit widened slightly in April, as a decrease in imports was more than offset by a drop in exports. Most major categories of exports fell, with exports of machinery, industrial supplies, and consumer goods exhibiting significant declines. The value of imports of goods and services also edged down after remaining about unchanged in March. Imports of machinery and industrial supplies displayed significant decreases, and imports of services fell moderately. Imports of consumer goods increased. The value of oil imports also rose, as higher prices outweighed lower volumes.

The decline in output in the advanced foreign economies deepened in the first quarter. Domestic demand fell in all major economies, led by double-digit declines in fixed investment and sizable negative contributions of inventories to growth. Recent indicators, however, suggested that the pace of contraction likely moderated in the second quarter. Purchasing managers indexes rebounded from the exceptionally low levels reached in the first quarter, and industrial production stabilized somewhat. In emerging market economies, incoming data showed that first-quarter real gross domestic product (GDP) contracted sharply in Mexico, Hong Kong, Malaysia, and Singapore, edged up in Korea, and expanded considerably in India and Indonesia. For the second quarter, indicators suggested a broader stabilization of activity in emerging market economies. In China, retail sales and fixed-asset investment rose strongly. Financial conditions continued to improve in most emerging market economies.

In the United States, headline consumer prices were little changed between March and May, held down by declines in the prices of food and energy over that period. Core inflation was slightly higher from March to May than during the preceding three months, although core prices posted fairly small increases apart from a tax-induced jump in tobacco prices. Near-term inflation expectations in the Reuters/University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers remained steady in May and then rose somewhat in the preliminary June survey. Survey measures of long-term inflation expectations showed no signs of moving lower despite the considerable margin of labor- and product-market slack present in the economy. At earlier stages of processing, the producer price index for core intermediate materials continued to decline through May, albeit at a slower pace than that seen at the end of 2008. Spot commodity prices, which had moved higher over the first four months of 2009, rose more rapidly since the end of April. Nevertheless, these prices remained well below their year-earlier levels. The incoming data on labor costs were mixed. Although the rise in hourly compensation in the nonfarm business sector picked up slightly in the first quarter, the employment cost index decelerated further. Increases in average hourly earnings also slowed further in April and May.