The decision by the FOMC to keep the target range for the federal funds rate unchanged at the December meeting and its retention of the "extended period" language in the statement were widely anticipated by market participants and elicited little price response. Later in the intermeeting period, the expected path of the federal funds rate implied by federal funds and Eurodollar futures quotes shifted down slightly as investors apparently interpreted Federal Reserve communications, including the discussion of large-scale asset purchases in the FOMC minutes, as pointing to a more protracted period of accommodative monetary policy than had been anticipated. By contrast, yields on 2- and 10-year nominal Treasury securities were about unchanged on net. Inflation compensation based on 5-year Treasury inflation-protected securities (TIPS) increased; the increase likely reflected higher inflation risk premiums and a further improvement in TIPS market liquidity, along with some rise in inflation expectations owing, in part, to increases in oil prices. Inflation compensation 5 to 10 years ahead declined slightly.

Financial market conditions remained supportive of economic growth over the intermeeting period, and short-term funding markets were generally stable. Spreads between London interbank offered rates (Libor) and overnight index swap (OIS) rates at one- and three-month maturities remained low, while spreads at the six-month maturity continued to edge down. Spreads on A2/P2-rated commercial paper (CP) and AA-rated asset-backed CP held steady at the low end of the range that has prevailed since mid-2007. Strong demand for Treasury bills in the cash and repurchase agreement (repo) market, together with a seasonal decline in bills outstanding, put downward pressure on both bill yields and short-term repo rates. Although year-end pressures in short-term funding markets were generally modest amid ample liquidity, the repo market experienced some year-end dislocations, with a few transactions reportedly occurring at negative interest rates. Use of Federal Reserve credit facilities edged lower over the intermeeting period, and market commentary suggested little concern about the impending expiration of a number of the facilities.

After trending higher for most of the intermeeting period, broad stock price indexes subsequently reversed course amid elevated volatility, ending the period little changed on balance. The gap between the staff's estimate of the expected real equity return over the next 10 years for S&P 500 firms and the real 10-year Treasury yield--a rough gauge of the equity risk premium--stayed about the same and remained well above its average level during the past decade. Over the intermeeting period, yields on both investment-grade and speculative-grade corporate bonds edged down, while those on comparable-maturity Treasury securities held steady. Estimates of bid-asked spreads for corporate bonds--a measure of liquidity in the corporate bond market--remained steady. In the leveraged loan market, average bid prices rose further and bid-asked spreads were little changed.

Overall, net debt financing by nonfinancial businesses was near zero in the fourth quarter after declining in the third, consistent with weak demand for credit and still tight credit standards and terms at banks. In December, gross public equity issuance by nonfinancial firms maintained its solid pace and issuance by financial firms increased noticeably, as several large banks issued shares and used the proceeds to repay capital injections they had received from the Troubled Asset Relief Program. Financing conditions for commercial real estate, however, remained strained. Moody's index of commercial property prices showed another drop in October, bringing the index back to its 2002 level. Delinquency rates on loans in commercial mortgage-backed securities pools increased further in December. The average interest rate on 30-year conforming fixed-rate residential mortgages increased slightly over the intermeeting period but remained within the narrow range of values over recent months. Consumer credit contracted for the 10th consecutive month in November, owing to a further steep decline in revolving credit. Credit card interest rate spreads continued to increase in November. In contrast, spreads on new auto loans extended their downtrend through early January. Delinquency rates on consumer loans remained high in recent months. Issuance of credit card asset-backed securities was minimal in October and November but picked up in December after the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation announced a temporary extension of safe-harbor rules for its handling of securitized assets should a sponsoring bank be taken into receivership.

Commercial bank credit continued to contract in December, as an increase in banks' securities holdings was more than offset by a large drop in total loans. Commercial and industrial loans and commercial real estate loans again fell markedly. Although a substantial fraction of banks continued to tighten their credit policies on commercial real estate loans in the fourth quarter, lending standards for most other types of loans were little changed, according to the January Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices. Nonetheless, standards and terms on all major loan types remained tight, and the demand for loans reportedly weakened further.

M2 continued to expand sluggishly in December. Growth of liquid deposits remained robust, but small time deposits and retail money market mutual funds again contracted at a rapid pace in response to the low yields on those assets. The monetary base and total bank reserves were roughly flat, as the contraction in credit outstanding from the Federal Reserve's liquidity and credit facilities was about offset by the Desk's purchases of agency debt and MBS.

Over the intermeeting period, benchmark sovereign yields in most advanced foreign economies displayed some volatility but ended little changed on net. Global sovereign bond offerings since the start of the year had been reasonably well received, although mounting fiscal concerns made investors more reluctant to hold debt issued by the Greek government; sovereign yields rose in Greece and, to a lesser extent, in several other countries where fiscal issues have raised concerns among investors. All major foreign central banks kept their policy rates unchanged. Foreign equity prices generally ended the intermeeting period down. European financial stocks declined substantially, as early profit reports for the fourth quarter from a few banks rekindled some concerns about the health of the banking system. The broad nominal index of the foreign exchange value of the dollar rose, reportedly reflecting a growing perception that U.S. growth prospects were better than those in Europe and Japan. Concerns that policy tightening by China might restrain the global recovery also may have contributed to the dollar's appreciation against many currencies late in the period.