The Manager of the System Open Market Account reported on developments in domestic and foreign financial markets during the period since the Committee met on December 15-16, 2009. Financial market conditions remained supportive of economic growth, though volatility in securities markets increased notably toward the end of the intermeeting period. Year-end funding pressures were minimal. No market strains had appeared as a result of the imminent closing, on February 1, of most of the Federal Reserve's special liquidity facilities. The Manager also reported on System open market operations in agency debt and agency MBS during the intermeeting period. The Desk continued to gradually slow the pace of its purchases of these securities as it moved toward completing the Committee's program of asset purchases by March 31. The Desk also continued to engage in dollar roll transactions in agency MBS securities to facilitate settlement of its outright purchases. The Federal Reserve's total assets remained a bit above $2.2 trillion, as the increase in the System's holdings of securities was almost entirely offset by a further decline in usage of the System's credit and liquidity facilities. By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Desk's transactions. Participants agreed that the Desk should continue the interim approach of not reinvesting the proceeds of maturing or prepaid agency securities and MBS held by the Federal Reserve. The Desk had continued to reinvest the proceeds of maturing Treasury securities by acquiring newly auctioned Treasury securities issued on the same day its existing holdings matured; participants agreed that the Desk should continue this practice for now, but the Committee would consider further its policy for redeeming or reinvesting maturing Treasury securities. There were no open market operations in foreign currencies for the System's account during the intermeeting period.

Staff briefed the Committee on current usage of the discount window and other liquidity facilities and suggested additional steps policymakers could take to normalize the Federal Reserve's liquidity provision. These steps included continuing to scale back amounts offered through the Term Auction Facility (TAF); returning to the pre-crisis standard of one-day maturity for primary credit loans to all but the smallest depository institutions; and increasing, initially to 50 basis points from 25 basis points, the spread between the primary credit rate and the upper end of the Committee's target range for the federal funds rate. Setting the spread reflects a balance between two objectives: encouraging depository institutions to use the discount window as a backup source of liquidity when they are faced with temporary liquidity shortfalls or when funding markets are disrupted, and discouraging depository institutions from relying on the discount window as a routine source of funds when other funding is generally available. The spread was 100 basis points before the financial crisis emerged; the Federal Reserve narrowed the spread to 50 basis points and then to 25 basis points as part of its response to the financial crisis. Participants judged that improvements in bank funding markets warranted reducing amounts offered at TAF auctions toward zero in three steps over the next few months, while noting that they would be prepared to modify that plan if necessary to support financial stability and economic growth. They agreed that it would soon be appropriate to return the maturity of primary credit loans to overnight and to widen the spread between the primary credit rate and the top of the Committee's target range for the federal funds rate. Several participants noted that the optimal spread could depend, in part, on the Committee's eventual decisions about the most suitable approach to implementing U.S. monetary policy over the longer term. Participants generally agreed that such steps to return the Federal Reserve's liquidity provision to a normal footing would be technical adjustments to reflect the notable diminution of the market strains that had made the creation of new liquidity facilities and expansion of existing facilities necessary and emphasized that such steps would not indicate a change in the Committee's assessment of the appropriate stance of monetary policy or the proper time to begin moving to a less accommodative policy stance.

Secretary's note: After the FOMC meeting, the Chairman, acting under authority delegated by the Board of Governors, directed that TAF auction amounts be reduced to $50 billion for the February 8 auction and to $25 billion for the final TAF auction, to be held on March 8.

Staff also briefed policymakers about tools and strategies for an eventual withdrawal of policy accommodation and summarized linkages between these tools and strategies and alternative frameworks for implementing monetary policy in the longer run. The tools for moving to a less accommodative policy stance encompassed (1) raising the interest rate paid on excess reserve balances (the IOER rate); (2) executing term reverse repurchase agreements with the primary dealers; (3) executing term RRPs with a broader range of counterparties; (4) using a term deposit facility (TDF) to absorb excess reserves; (5) redeeming maturing and prepaid securities held by the Federal Reserve without reinvesting the proceeds; and (6) selling securities held by the Federal Reserve before they mature. All but the first of these tools would shrink the supply of reserve balances; the last two would also shrink the Federal Reserve's balance sheet. The Desk already had successfully tested its ability to conduct term RRPs with primary dealers by arranging several small-scale transactions using Treasury securities and agency debt as collateral; staff anticipated that the Federal Reserve would be able to execute term RRPs against MBS early this spring and would have the capability to conduct RRPs with an expanded set of counterparties soon after. In coming weeks, staff would analyze comments received in response to a Federal Register notice, published in late December, requesting the public's input on the TDF proposal. Staff would then prepare a final proposal for the Board's consideration. A TDF could be operational as soon as May.

Staff described several feasible strategies for using these six tools to support a gradual return toward a more normal stance of monetary policy: (1) using one or more of the tools to progressively reduce the supply of reserve balances--which rose to an exceptionally high level as a consequence of the expansion of the Federal Reserve's liquidity and lending facilities and subsequent large-scale asset purchases during the financial crisis--before raising the IOER rate and the target for the federal funds rate; (2) increasing the IOER rate in line with an increase in the federal funds rate target and concurrently using one or more tools to reduce the supply of reserve balances; and (3) raising the IOER rate and the target for the federal funds rate and using reserve draining tools only if the federal funds rate did not increase in line with the Committee's target.

Participants expressed a range of views about the tools and strategies for removing policy accommodation when that step becomes appropriate. All agreed that raising the IOER rate and the target for the federal funds rate would be a key element of a move to less accommodative monetary policy. Most thought that it likely would be appropriate to reduce the supply of reserve balances, to some extent, before the eventual increase in the IOER rate and in the target for the federal funds rate, in part because doing so would tighten the link between short-term market rates and the IOER rate; however, several noted that draining operations might be seen as a precursor to tightening and should only be undertaken when the Committee judged that an increase in its target for the federal funds rate would soon be appropriate. For the same reason, a few judged that it would be better to drain reserves concurrently with the eventual increase in the IOER and target rates.

With respect to longer-run approaches to implementing monetary policy, most policymakers saw benefits in continuing to use the federal funds rate as the operating target for implementing monetary policy, so long as other money market rates remained closely linked to the federal funds rate. Many thought that an approach in which the primary credit rate was set above the Committee's target for the federal funds rate and the IOER rate was set below that target--a corridor system--would be beneficial. Participants recognized, however, that the supply of reserve balances would need to be reduced considerably to lift the funds rate above the IOER rate. Several saw advantages to using the IOER rate, rather than a target for a market rate, to indicate the stance of policy. Participants noted that their judgments were tentative, that they would continue to discuss the ultimate operating regime, and that they might well gain useful information about longer-run approaches during the eventual withdrawal of policy accommodation.

Finally, staff noted that the Committee might want to address both the eventual size of the Federal Reserve's balance sheet and its composition. Policymakers were unanimous in the view that it will be appropriate to shrink the supply of reserve balances and the size of the Federal Reserve's balance sheet substantially over time. Moreover, they agreed that it will eventually be appropriate for the System Open Market Account to return to holding only securities issued by the U.S. Treasury, as it did before the financial crisis. Several thought the Federal Reserve should hold, eventually, a portfolio composed largely of shorter-term Treasury securities. Participants agreed that a policy of redeeming and not replacing agency debt and MBS as those securities mature or are prepaid would contribute to achieving both goals and thus would be appropriate. Many thought it would also be desirable to redeem some or all of the Treasury securities owned by the Federal Reserve as they mature, recognizing that at some point in the future the Federal Reserve would need to resume purchases of Treasury securities to offset reductions in other assets and to accommodate growth in the public's demand for U.S. currency. Participants expressed a range of views about asset sales. Most judged that a future program of gradual asset sales could be helpful in shrinking the size of the Federal Reserve's balance sheet, reducing reserve balances, and shifting the composition of securities holdings back toward Treasury securities; however, many were concerned that such transactions could cause market disruptions and have adverse implications for the economic recovery, particularly if they were to begin before the recovery had become self-sustaining and before the Committee had determined that a tightening of financial conditions was appropriate and had begun to raise short-term interest rates. Several thought it important to begin a program of asset sales in the near future to ensure that the Federal Reserve's balance sheet shrinks more quickly and in a more predictable manner than could be achieved solely by redeeming maturing securities and not reinvesting prepayments; they judged that a program of asset sales spread over a number of years would underscore the Committee's determination to exit from the period of exceptionally accommodative monetary policy in a manner and at a pace that would keep inflation contained without having large effects on asset prices or market interest rates. A few suggested that the pace of asset sales, and potentially of purchases, could be adjusted over time in response to developments in the economy and the evolution of the economic outlook. The Committee made no decisions about asset sales at this meeting.