In conjunction with this FOMC meeting, all meeting participants--the five members of the Board of Governors and the presidents of the 12 Federal Reserve Banks--provided projections for economic growth, the unemployment rate, and consumer price inflation for each year from 2010 through 2012 and over a longer horizon. Longer-run projections represent each participant's assessment of the rate to which each variable would be expected to converge over time under appropriate monetary policy and in the absence of further shocks. Participants' forecasts through 2012 and over the longer run are described in the Summary of Economic Projections, which is attached as an addendum to these minutes.

In their discussion of the economic situation and outlook, participants agreed that the incoming data and information received from business contacts, though mixed, indicated that economic growth had strengthened in the fourth quarter, that firms were reducing payrolls at a less rapid pace, and that downside risks to the outlook for economic growth had diminished a bit further. Participants saw the economic news as broadly in line with the expectations for moderate growth and subdued inflation in 2010 that they held when the Committee met in mid-December; moreover, financial conditions were much the same, on balance, as when the FOMC last met. Accordingly, participants' views about the economic outlook had not changed appreciably. Many noted the evidence that the pace of inventory decumulation slowed quite substantially in the fourth quarter of 2009 as firms increased output to bring production into closer alignment with sales. Participants saw the slower pace of inventory reductions as a welcome indication that, in general, firms no longer had large inventory overhangs. But they observed that business contacts continued to report great reluctance to build inventories, increase payrolls, and expand capacity. Participants expected the economic recovery to continue, but most anticipated that the pickup in output and employment growth would be rather slow relative to past recoveries from deep recessions. A moderate pace of expansion would imply slow improvement in the labor market this year, with unemployment declining only gradually. Most participants again projected that the economy would grow somewhat more rapidly in 2011 and 2012, generating a more pronounced decline in the unemployment rate, as financial conditions and the availability of credit continue to improve. In general, participants saw the upside and downside risks to the outlook for economic growth as roughly balanced. Participants agreed that underlying inflation currently was subdued and was likely to remain so for some time. Some noted the risk that, with output well below potential over the next couple of years, inflation could edge further below the rates they judged most consistent with the Federal Reserve's dual mandate for maximum employment and price stability; others, focusing on risks to inflation expectations and the challenge of removing monetary accommodation in a timely manner, saw inflation risks as tilted toward the upside, especially in the medium term.

The weakness in labor markets continued to be an important concern for the FOMC; moreover, the prospects for job growth remained an important source of uncertainty in the economic outlook, particularly in the outlook for consumer spending. While the average pace of layoffs diminished substantially in recent months, few firms were hiring. The unusually large fraction of individuals who were working part time for economic reasons, as well as the uncommonly low level of the average workweek, pointed to a gradual increase in payrolls for some time even if hours worked were to increase substantially as the economic recovery proceeded. Indeed, many business contacts again reported that they would be cautious in hiring, saying they expected to meet any near-term increase in demand by raising existing employees' hours and boosting productivity, thus delaying the need to add employees. If businesses were able to continue generating large productivity gains, as in recent quarters, then firms would need to hire fewer workers in the near term to meet rising demands for their products. But if the unusually rapid productivity growth seen in recent quarters was not sustained, then job growth could pick up significantly as productivity returned to sustainable levels. The rise in employment of temporary workers in recent months appeared to be continuing; historical experience suggested that increased use of temporary help could presage a broader increase in job growth.

Participants generally saw the data and anecdotal evidence as indicating moderate growth in demands for goods and services, although with substantial variation across sectors. Consumer spending appeared to be increasing modestly. Reports on holiday sales were mixed. Retailers indicated that consumers appeared more willing to buy but that they remained unusually sensitive to pricing. Business contacts continued to report that they were limiting investment outlays pending resolution of uncertainty about sales prospects and future tax and regulatory policies; moreover, they had substantial excess capacity and thus little need to expand production facilities. Even so, the data indicated solid growth in business spending on high-tech equipment in recent months. Anecdotal evidence suggested that such spending was being driven by opportunities to reduce costs and by replacement investment that firms had deferred during the downturn. By and large, participants judged that residential investment had stabilized but did not expect housing construction to make a sizable contribution to economic growth during the next year or two. Commercial construction continued to trend down, primarily reflecting weak fundamentals, though financing constraints probably were also playing a role. Stronger economic growth abroad was contributing to growth in U.S. exports, thus helping support the recovery in industrial production in the United States.

Policymakers judged that financial conditions were, on balance, about as supportive of growth as when the Committee met in December. Though volatility in equity prices increased late in the intermeeting period, broad equity price indexes were about unchanged overall, private credit spreads narrowed somewhat, and financial markets generally continued to function significantly better than early last year. All categories of bank loans, however, continued to contract sharply. Survey evidence suggested that banks had ceased tightening standards on most types of business and consumer loans, though commercial real estate loans were a notable exception. Anecdotal evidence suggested that some banks were starting to look for opportunities to expand lending.

Though headline inflation had been variable, largely reflecting swings in energy prices, core measures of inflation were subdued and were expected to remain so. One participant noted that core inflation had been held down in recent quarters by unusually slow increases in the price index for shelter, and that the recent behavior of core inflation might be a misleading signal of the underlying inflation trend. Reports from business contacts suggested less price discounting, but pricing power remained limited. Wage growth continued to be restrained, and unit labor costs were still falling. Energy prices had dropped back in recent weeks, but many participants saw upward pressures on commodity prices associated with expanding global economic activity as an inflation risk. However, some noted that the high degree of slack in resource utilization posed a downside risk to inflation. Survey measures of expected future inflation were fairly stable, but some market-based measures of inflation expectations and inflation risk suggested continuing concern among market participants about the risk of higher medium-term inflation, perhaps reflecting large fiscal deficits and the size of the Federal Reserve's balance sheet.

Though participants agreed there was considerable slack in resource utilization, their judgments about the degree of slack varied. The several extensions of emergency unemployment insurance benefits appeared to have raised the measured unemployment rate, relative to levels recorded in past downturns, by encouraging some who have lost their jobs to remain in the labor force. If that effect were large--some estimates suggested it could account for 1 percentage point or more of the increase in the unemployment rate during this recession--then the reported unemployment rate might be overstating the amount of slack in resource utilization relative to past periods of high unemployment. Several participants observed that the necessity of reallocating labor across sectors as the recovery proceeds, as well as the loss of skills caused by high levels of long-term unemployment and permanent separations, could reduce the economy's potential output, at least temporarily; historical experience following large adverse financial shocks suggests such an effect. On the other hand, if recent productivity gains were to be sustained, as some business contacts indicated they would be, potential output currently could be higher than standard measures suggested, and the high level of the unemployment rate could be a more accurate indication of slack in resource utilization than usual measures of the output gap.