Financial markets were quite volatile over the period since the September FOMC meeting. Investor sentiment was strongly influenced by prospects for Europe, as market participants remained highly attuned to developments regarding possible steps to contain the fiscal and banking problems there. Economic data releases that were, on balance, somewhat better than market participants expected provided some support to financial markets.

Longer-term Treasury yields declined appreciably following the release of the September FOMC statement. Investors reportedly viewed the Committee's assessment of the economic outlook as more downbeat than anticipated. In addition, the announcement that the Federal Reserve would lengthen the average maturity of its portfolio by purchasing longer-term Treasury securities and selling an equivalent amount of shorter-term Treasury securities reportedly contributed to the decline in longer-term yields on the day. Yields on current-coupon agency MBS also moved lower on the announcement that the Federal Reserve would begin to reinvest principal payments on agency securities in agency MBS. Over the following weeks, movements in yields were driven by shifts in investors' assessments of the ongoing efforts to address the European fiscal and banking situation and by somewhat stronger-than-expected U.S. economic data. On balance since the September FOMC meeting, Treasury yields on shorter-dated securities and the expected path of the federal funds rate implied by money market futures quotes were not much changed. Yields on Treasury securities with maturities beyond 10 years moved down. Measures of near-term inflation compensation derived from nominal and inflation-protected Treasury securities rose slightly over the intermeeting period, while similar measures of longer-term inflation compensation were about unchanged.

Credit default swap (CDS) spreads and equity prices of large U.S. banking organizations were again volatile over the period. Investor sentiment toward these financial institutions was strongly influenced by changes in investors' assessments of the risks associated with the European fiscal and banking problems and the exposure of various financial institutions to Europe. Third-quarter U.S. bank earnings reports generally met investors' expectations. On net, equity prices for U.S. banking firms were not much changed over the period since the last FOMC meeting, while their CDS spreads were a bit higher. European bank CDS spreads remained elevated, and these institutions continued to face somewhat strained conditions in short-term bank funding markets.

Although equity markets were volatile, broad U.S. equity price indexes ended the intermeeting period little changed. Earnings reports for nonfinancial firms generally came in somewhat better than investors expected and about in line with second-quarter levels. Gross public equity issuance by nonfinancial firms continued to be very weak in September and October, with a large number of firms shelving planned initial public offerings amid the volatility in equity markets.

Yields on investment- and speculative-grade corporate bonds edged lower, on net, over the period, leaving their spreads to Treasury securities slightly narrower. Credit flows for nonfinancial firms were mixed in September and October. The pace of bond financing by investment-grade nonfinancial corporations slowed some in October from its robust September pace, while bond issuance by speculative-grade firms was limited. Nonfinancial commercial paper outstanding posted solid growth in October. In the leveraged loan market, issuance financed by institutional investors slowed significantly in the third quarter.

Financing conditions for commercial real estate (CRE) markets appeared to have deteriorated in some respects. Issuance of commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS) slowed further in the third quarter amid widening CMBS spreads, and only a small number of deals were in the pipeline for the rest of the year. Prices of most types of commercial properties remained depressed, and aggregate vacancy and delinquency rates for commercial properties were close to their recent highs.

Interest rates on residential mortgages changed little, on net, over the intermeeting period but remained at historically low levels. The recent low rates appeared to have only a modest effect on the pace of mortgage refinancing, as tight underwriting standards and low home equity continued to limit the access of many households to the mortgage market. However, in October, the Federal Housing Finance Agency announced changes to the Home Affordable Refinance Program to expand eligibility and take-up among borrowers with mortgages backed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Indicators of home prices remained weak, reflecting a large inventory of unsold properties and modest demand for homes. The pace at which performing prime mortgages became newly delinquent rose over the summer but remained below last year's levels.

Consumer credit decreased in August. Growth in nonrevolving credit, which had been volatile due to a shift in the timing of student loan originations, stepped down from the pace seen earlier in the year but remained solid in recent months. Issuance of consumer credit asset-backed securities continued at a moderate pace through mid-October. Delinquency rates for several categories of consumer loans remained low, a reflection in part of tighter underwriting standards that shifted the composition of borrowers toward those with stronger credit histories.

Core commercial bank loans expanded slightly in the third quarter. Commercial and industrial (C&I) loans accelerated following the already strong increases seen over the first half of the year. That growth was concentrated among large domestic banks and non-European foreign institutions. Consumer loans on banks' books advanced modestly in the third quarter, ending a two-year string of quarterly declines. Closed-end residential mortgage loans held by banks also increased amid the modest pickup in refinancing activity, while CRE loans contracted. The October Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices showed less net easing of lending standards by domestic banks than in the past few surveys. In particular, domestic banks reported little change in their standards on C&I loans over the third quarter, on net, compared with more widespread reports of easing in the previous several quarters. Demand for loans reportedly was little changed, on balance, over the third quarter.

M2 grew at a modest pace in September and October, well below the rapid rate seen in July and August. Some of the factors that contributed to M2 growth over the summer, such as concerns about European financial developments and equity market volatility, persisted and supported elevated levels of M2 deposits but did not trigger additional sizable inflows. The monetary base also grew moderately as its major components--reserve balances and currency--increased over the period.

Foreign financial markets remained volatile over the intermeeting period, and funding pressures for many European financial institutions continued. After falling sharply in August and early September, foreign equity prices rose, with stocks in the euro area outperforming those in most other economies. For most of the period, market participants seemed heartened by European leaders' efforts to address the fiscal and financial challenges present in the euro area, although the news late in the period on a possible Greek referendum sent stock prices down sharply. Benchmark sovereign yields increased over the period, but spreads of yields on 10-year sovereign bonds of the most vulnerable euro-area countries over yields on German bunds were little changed on net. Some reversal of safe-haven flows in October reportedly led the dollar to give back most of the gains it registered in late September, leaving the broad nominal foreign exchange value of the dollar little changed, on balance, relative to its level at the time of the September FOMC meeting. At the end of October, Japanese officials intervened in foreign exchange markets through sales of yen.

The first round of the three-month U.S. dollar auctions that major foreign central banks announced on September 15 was held in October; demand was quite limited, and only the European Central Bank (ECB) drew on its swap line with the Federal Reserve. Korea and Japan announced that they would increase the size and scope of their bilateral currency swap arrangements, expanding the size of their existing won--yen swap arrangement and establishing a $30 billion facility in which dollars could be swapped for either won or yen.

A number of central banks announced additional measures to stimulate economic activity. The Bank of England and Bank of Japan each announced expansions of their respective asset purchase programs, and the ECB announced that it would conduct two refinancing operations with maturities of slightly more than a year and launched a new covered bond purchase program. The central banks of Brazil, Indonesia, and Israel lowered their policy rates, citing a potential slowdown in global growth.