Over the intermeeting period, the market-implied expected path of the federal funds rate moved up modestly, showing only a slight decline over the remainder of the year. The higher expected policy rate path was driven in part by investor concerns about the potential for near-term inflationary pressures due to the conflict in the Middle East. While both market- and survey-based measures of inflation expectations indicated upside risks to the near-term inflation outlook, measures of medium- and longer-term inflation expectations remained well anchored.

Despite geopolitical uncertainty and realized volatility, broad equity price indexes increased, on net, over the intermeeting period, supported by benign data on economic activity and overall strong corporate earnings releases. The one-month option-implied volatility on the S&P 500 index declined moderately to end the period around the median of its historical distribution. Corporate bond spreads narrowed across sectors and rating classes and moved broadly with equity prices over the period.

Asset prices in foreign financial markets experienced large swings and remained highly sensitive to news about the conflict in the Middle East. Investor concerns rose early in the period as the conflict escalated and waned after the announcement of a cease-fire. On net, improved market risk sentiment weighed on the exchange value of the dollar and boosted foreign equity prices. Optimism related to artificial intelligence (AI) also contributed to the rise in foreign equity prices. Short-term inflation compensation measures and market-based policy expectations moved higher in AFEs, most notably in Europe. Emerging market economies saw modest capital outflows, on net, concentrated in countries dependent on energy imports from the Middle East.

Conditions in U.S. short-term funding markets remained orderly, supported by ongoing RMPs. The EFFR was unchanged over the intermeeting period, and rates in secured markets declined, on average, exhibiting only modest pressures over March quarter-end. On the April 15 tax date, secured funding market rates rose somewhat as reserves declined sharply, and there was modest take-up of SRP operations.

Financing conditions in domestic credit markets remained somewhat restrictive for small businesses and households but were generally accommodative for larger businesses and municipalities. Borrowing costs were little changed in most sectors and remained elevated relative to their average levels since the Global Financial Crisis (GFC).

Credit continued to be generally available to most businesses, households, and municipalities. Bank lending continued to expand, and issuance of corporate bonds was robust—in part due to a pickup in speculative-grade bond issuance for the financing of AI capital expenditures—whereas issuance of private credit loans slowed somewhat. By contrast, credit conditions remained somewhat tight for small businesses and mortgage borrowers with lower credit scores. Issuance of municipal bonds was strong.

In the April Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices (SLOOS), banks reported further easing in lending standards in the first quarter, particularly for consumer loans. 2 The overall level of bank lending standards aggregated across loan categories was estimated to be around the median level observed since 2011.

Credit performance remained solid in most markets. The 12-month trailing default rate on nonfinancial corporate bonds remained near the 25th percentile of its post-GFC range. Although the default rate for leveraged loans remained elevated, market-implied measures of year-ahead expected defaults were below the median of their post-GFC distributions. For direct private credit borrowers, default rates remained low through March, but payment-in-kind continued to be used to defer interest payments in the fourth quarter of 2025, particularly in the software industry. The credit performance of loans to medium-sized and large businesses and municipalities remained solid, and the credit performance of municipal bonds remained strong. Conversely, credit performance of small business loans and commercial mortgage-backed securities continued to be somewhat weak, and delinquency rates for mortgages insured by the Federal Housing Administration and consumer loans remained elevated.

The staff provided an updated assessment of the stability of the U.S. financial system and, on balance, continued to characterize the system's financial vulnerabilities as notable. The staff judged that asset valuation pressures were elevated. Measures of housing valuations were near historical highs.

Vulnerabilities associated with nonfinancial business and household debt were characterized as moderate. Household balance sheets were strong, with significant home equity. Although aggregate business debt growth had been subdued in recent years, private credit had grown rapidly. Some private credit vehicles experienced net outflows in the first quarter amid credit quality concerns caused in part by the potential for AI to disrupt business models in some industries, notably software.

Vulnerabilities associated with leverage in the financial sector were characterized as notable. Leverage at hedge funds remained high, most notably for leveraged Treasury market trades. Life insurers' leverage also remained elevated. By contrast, bank regulatory capital ratios remained high relative to historical levels. Banks' market-adjusted capital ratios, however, ticked down in the first quarter and stayed below levels seen before 2022, though they remain notably above their lows from a few years ago. Banks' asset duration had declined to pre-pandemic levels, indicating a more moderate exposure to interest rate risk relative to recent years.

Vulnerabilities associated with funding risks were characterized as moderate. Banks' reliance on uninsured deposits was low relative to the period of banking-sector stress in 2023.