The manager turned first to an overview of market developments during the intermeeting period. The conflict in the Middle East had continued to be a key factor driving asset price movements. Equity prices had more than reversed their earlier declines, while 2-year and 10-year Treasury yields rose a bit further over the intermeeting period, as did near-term inflation compensation. In foreign exchange markets, the U.S. dollar retraced some of its previous appreciation.

The manager observed that the crude oil futures curve was higher than the curve prevailing at the time of the March FOMC meeting. The curve remained steeply downward sloping, consistent with investor expectations of oil prices falling considerably in coming months. The manager noted, however, that the curve's forecasting record was mixed.

Next, the manager discussed the recent behavior of inflation expectations. Near-term inflation expectations, as reported in the Open Market Desk Survey of Market Expectations (Desk survey), had again moved up, though expectations for 2027 and beyond were little changed. The survey results and market-based measures of inflation compensation pointed to longer-term expectations remaining well anchored near the Committee's 2 percent longer-run inflation objective.

On monetary policy expectations, the manager noted that market-implied expectations still indicated that market participants anticipated little change this year in the target range for the federal funds rate, and options prices implied around a 30 percent probability of a rate hike by the first quarter of 2027. In the Desk survey, the median of the modal paths continued to show two 25 basis point rate reductions over the next year, but respondents now expected them to occur later than in the previous survey, with rate cuts expected in the third or fourth quarter of 2026 and the first quarter of 2027.

Nominal Treasury yields had risen modestly further over the intermeeting period. A model-based decomposition of changes suggested that the increase in the two-year nominal yield since the start of the conflict in the Middle East reflected a sizable increase in expected inflation, offset to some degree by a decline in the expected real interest rate, a combination consistent with the realization of an adverse supply shock. A decomposition of the 10-year yield suggested a much smaller increase in expected inflation, alongside an increase in risk premiums. Liquidity conditions in Treasury securities markets had remained favorable even at times of increased volatility.

The manager next considered equity market developments. Perceived de-escalation in the Middle East conflict boosted risk sentiment over the intermeeting period, but equity price increases had also been underpinned by strong earnings expectations. After underperforming earlier in 2026, technology-sector stocks recorded the strongest price gains over the period.

In discussing credit markets, the manager noted that the private credit sector continued to receive attention over the intermeeting period. Although redemption requests continued, there were some signs of stabilization or slight improvement in investor sentiment, as evidenced, for example, by somewhat tighter credit spreads and higher equity prices of business development companies active in the sector.

With regard to international developments, the manager noted that, as in the U.S. case, two-year sovereign yields in advanced foreign economies (AFEs) had declined from their late-March peaks but remained above values prevailing before the start of the conflict. Market contacts mostly attributed the rise in short-dated nominal yields to increases in inflation compensation induced by higher energy prices and related upward shifts in the expected policy rate path across regions.

The manager observed that the foreign exchange value of the U.S. dollar had retraced much of its initial appreciation in March, though it remained higher than before the start of the conflict. The improvement in sentiment following the cease-fire in the Middle East conflict that was announced in the first half of April was cited as an important driver of the dollar depreciation.

The manager observed that money market conditions had been largely stable over the intermeeting period. The effective federal funds rate (EFFR) had remained 1 basis point below the interest on reserve balances (IORB) rate. Repurchase agreement (repo) rates remained very close to the IORB rate on average. The quarter-end date and the April tax date were not associated with significant money market pressures. The overnight reverse repurchase agreement (ON RRP) facility generally saw minimal usage over the intermeeting period. Excluding trades related to participation requirements, usage of standing repurchase agreement (SRP) operations was limited to the key tax date of April 15. Repeating the pattern observed in recent months, SRP usage on that date occurred even though interdealer repo rates were only slightly above the SRP rate. The manager took this pattern as indicating a greater willingness of counterparties to use the operations when they judged doing so to be economically sensible. Surveys taken of counterparties also pointed to this conclusion. The stability of the EFFR and repo rates at values close to the IORB rate as well as the limited ON RRP and SRP usage were consistent with the supply of reserves remaining in the ample range. This assessment was consistent with the behavior of various indicators of reserve conditions.

The manager turned next to recent developments related to the Federal Reserve's balance sheet. The decline in reserve balances induced by April's tax payments and the associated increase in the Treasury General Account balance had been large and steep but close to the Desk's expectations. The drop in reserves had occurred alongside orderly money market behavior, consistent with reserve management purchases (RMPs) helping to maintain a state of ample reserves.

The manager concluded by providing information about operational tests and utilization of foreign exchange swap lines between the Federal Reserve and foreign central banks. The manager remarked that the standing swap lines were key liquidity backstops that provided significant benefits. As this meeting was the usual time to renew these arrangements, the staff recommended that the Committee maintain the standing U.S. dollar and foreign currency liquidity swap arrangements that the Federal Reserve had with five other central banks and renew the North American Framework Agreement arrangements with the Bank of Canada and the Bank of Mexico. Finally, the manager observed that the Desk began conducting securities lending operations on FedTrade Plus on April 22, as part of the transition to this new trading platform.

The Committee voted unanimously to renew the dollar and foreign currency liquidity swap arrangements with the Bank of Canada, the Bank of England, the Bank of Japan, the European Central Bank, and the Swiss National Bank. In addition, the Committee voted unanimously to renew the reciprocal currency arrangements with the Bank of Canada and the Bank of Mexico; these arrangements are associated with the Federal Reserve's participation in the North American Framework Agreement of 1994. The votes to renew the Federal Reserve's participation in these standing arrangements occur annually at the April or May FOMC meeting.

By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Desk's domestic transactions over the intermeeting period. There were no intervention operations in foreign currencies for the System's account during the intermeeting period.