The information available at the time of the meeting indicated that inflation remained elevated and had moved higher, led by a sharp increase in energy prices. Labor market conditions had stabilized, and real gross domestic product (GDP) continued to expand.

Total consumer price inflation—as measured by the 12‑month change in the price index for personal consumption expenditures (PCE)—was 2.8 percent in February; core PCE price inflation, which excludes changes in consumer energy prices and many consumer food prices, was 3.0 percent. Both total and core inflation were similar to their levels a year earlier. Core goods price inflation had risen relative to a year earlier, a development that the staff largely attributed to the effects of higher tariffs. Core services price inflation had declined over that period, with the housing component increasing at a slower pace. Based on data from the consumer and producer price indexes, the staff estimated that total PCE price inflation rose to 3.5 percent in March, boosted by a sharp increase in energy prices; March core PCE price inflation was estimated to be 3.2 percent.

The unemployment rate was 4.3 percent in March and had changed little, on net, since the middle of the previous year. Nonfarm payroll employment rose sharply in March after having been depressed in February by a strike in the health-care sector and unusually harsh winter weather; smoothing through this volatility, job gains had remained low on average. The 12-month change in average hourly earnings was 3.5 percent in March, 0.7 percentage point below its year-earlier pace.

Available indicators suggested that real GDP growth picked up in the first quarter as the effects of the federal government shutdown unwound. Trade data through March suggested that net exports were a significant drag on U.S. GDP growth in the first quarter: Goods exports rebounded sharply from their decline in the fourth quarter of 2025, but goods imports rose even more sharply, driven by gains in high-tech goods imports. Real private domestic final purchases—which comprises PCE and private fixed investment and which often provides a better signal of underlying economic momentum than real GDP—appeared to have risen in the first quarter at a rate that was a little faster than the average pace seen over the preceding year.

Economic activity abroad appeared to have expanded at a moderate pace in the first quarter. Continued strong demand for high-tech goods supported Asian exports. Growth in China also appeared solid, supported by strong external demand and a moderate recovery in domestic demand. By contrast, activity in Mexico was held down by continued weakness in the automotive sector. Recent survey data pointed to strains from the conflict in the Middle East, with European and Asian firms reporting a notable lengthening of supplier delivery times and a surge in input prices.

Foreign headline inflation had generally been running close to central bank targets, but incoming March data pointed to a marked rise in inflation abroad driven by the run-up in energy prices. Over the intermeeting period, most foreign central banks kept their policies on hold, emphasizing the uncertainty around the Middle East conflict. An exception was the Bank of Mexico, which cut its policy rate 25 basis points in late March.