The information reviewed at this meeting suggested that economic activity exhibited little, if any, upward movement in midsummer. Increases in household expenditures on consumer items and housing appeared to have been relatively well maintained, but business capital expenditures had weakened substantially since early in the year. Efforts to reduce inventories were continuing, and manufacturing activity had decreased further. Employment had declined over recent months. With energy prices having turned down, overall consumer price inflation had eased slightly in recent months, while core measures of consumer prices showed mixed changes on a twelve-month basis. Measures of labor costs had decelerated on balance.

Private nonfarm payroll employment, after declining appreciably during the second quarter, fell further in July, led by additional job losses in manufacturing and help-supply services. Labor demand remained weak in other sectors, with employment in most industries flat to down. The unemployment rate edged up to 4.5 percent in June and remained at that level in July. Although initial claims for unemployment insurance had declined in recent weeks, on balance data suggested persisting softening in the labor market.

Industrial production edged lower in July after larger drops in each of the previous three months. Motor vehicle assemblies rose markedly, but production of high-tech equipment continued to plummet, registering its largest one-month decline in more than a decade. Outside those two industries, manufacturing production either moved sideways or fell slightly. The rate of utilization of manufacturing capacity was little changed in July and remained well below its long-run average.

Growth in consumer spending slowed somewhat in the second quarter, but except for automotive dealers, retailers reported sizable gains in July. Consumer confidence appeared to have stabilized at moderately favorable levels in recent months. Supported by low mortgage rates, residential building activity had held up well this year. In July, single-family starts increased slightly from a strong pace in the first and second quarters, though permits fell marginally. Sales of new homes rose in June (latest data), and sales of existing homes edged down but remained only slightly below their historical peak.

Business spending on equipment and software declined substantially in the second quarter after falling somewhat in the preceding two quarters. The weakness stemmed from sluggish growth in business sales, significantly reduced corporate cash flows, and continued uncertainty about prospects for future sales and earnings. Shipments of nondefense capital goods declined in June after a modest increase in May, but for the second quarter as a whole they contracted at more than twice the first-quarter pace. Moreover, orders data for June were extraordinarily weak, led by a steep decline in communications equipment. Those data, as well as numerous anecdotal reports, suggested further weakness in spending for equipment and software going forward. Nonresidential construction, which had held up well in the first quarter, was down substantially in the second quarter, as spending for office, industrial, and lodging facilities contracted sharply. Vacancy rates, particularly in high-tech centers, had increased significantly in recent months, as demand for office space and data centers plunged. In contrast, expenditures for drilling and mining equipment soared further in the second quarter.

Business inventory liquidation was sizable in the second quarter, at a pace estimated to be a bit more rapid than in the first quarter. Manufacturing stocks, particularly of computers and electronic products, were reduced substantially; however, shipments of those products also plunged and the inventory-sales ratio in the computer and electronics sector rose further from an already high level. Elsewhere in manufacturing, the ratio of stocks to sales held steady, with stocks remaining high in a number of manufacturing industries despite aggressive production cutbacks. Inventories rose in the wholesale sector and, given sluggish sales of late, the ratio of inventories to sales moved sharply higher in the second quarter. Stocks in the automobile sector declined over the quarter and moved lower in July. Retail inventories, excluding motor vehicles, fell moderately and the sector's inventory-sales ratio edged lower.

The U.S. trade deficit in goods and services narrowed over the May-June period and was about $20 billion smaller at an annual rate in the second quarter than in the first. The value of imports dropped sharply in the second quarter. The value of exports also decreased significantly, with most of the decline in capital goods, primarily computers and semiconductors. Recent information on foreign industrial economies suggested that growth weakened further in the second quarter. The Japanese economy contracted in the quarter, and growth in the euro area appeared to have weakened substantially. Among the developing countries, economic and financial conditions had deteriorated further in Argentina. In most other developing countries, the pace of economic growth continued to decline.

Consumer price inflation had eased in recent months, as energy prices turned down and increases in core consumer prices subsided after a pickup early in the year. The core consumer price index (CPI) rose in July at about the same pace as in the second quarter, but the twelve-month change in that index had increased slightly. However, revised data indicated that the core personal consumption expenditure (PCE) chain index had decelerated on a year-over-year basis. At the producer level, prices fell in July, leaving the twelve-month change in the producer price index for finished goods somewhat below the twelve-month change of a year earlier. With regard to labor costs, the employment cost index (ECI) increased at a somewhat slower pace in the twelve months ended in June than over the preceding twelve months.