In the Committee's discussion of current and prospective economic developments, many of the members commented that the anticipated strengthening in economic expansion had not yet occurred and, indeed, that the economy and near-term economic prospects appeared to have deteriorated marginally further in the period since the previous meeting. Several members referred to a number of recently available economic indicators that in their view suggested the possibility that the string of disappointing readings on the economy might be about to end, but those indicators were insufficiently robust and too recent to provide conclusive evidence of emerging stabilization, much less that some overall strengthening might be under way. Among other things, the economy was still adjusting to downward revisions to expected earnings and to perceptions of greater risk and associated declines in wealth. In sum, the timing of the pickup in the growth of the economy had again been pushed back. Even so, the prospects for an upswing over coming quarters remained favorable against the backdrop of the lagged effects of substantial monetary policy easing already implemented this year, the recent passage and initial implementation of stimulative fiscal policy measures, the progress businesses had already achieved toward completing inventory adjustments, and the underlying support for business investments from continued technological innovations. Nonetheless, the members recognized that the recovery in business fixed investment, the major source of weakness in the economy, was likely to follow a more extended period of adjustment than had been anticipated in their earlier forecasts. With regard to the outlook for inflation, members reported on widespread indications of some slackening in what were still generally tight labor markets and also noted that capacity utilization rates had declined substantially in many industries. The reduced pressures on resources along with expectations of some further declines in energy prices were seen by many members as likely to foster a modest deceleration in many measures of wages and prices.

Statistical evidence of an ongoing, though gradual, worsening in overall business conditions was supported by anecdotal reports from around the nation. Weakness continued to be concentrated in manufacturing, notably in the high-tech sector and in high-tech service industries. Indications that the softening was spreading more generally were still fairly limited as suggested by employment data and anecdotal reports. At the same time, members cited some still quite tentative signs that declines in manufacturing had slowed or that activity had steadied in some depressed industries.

In their review of developments in key sectors of the economy, members again emphasized the ongoing strength in household spending and its vital role in moderating the weakness in overall economic activity. Tax rebates, declining energy prices, and widespread discounting of retail prices were cited as positive factors in support of consumer spending on a wide range of goods and services. In addition, increasingly persuasive evidence indicated that realized capital gains from the sale of homes were a source of fairly significant amounts of consumer purchasing power in the economy. Looking ahead, members expressed some concern about how long the household sector would continue to prop up the economy in the absence of an upturn in business expenditures. While accommodative financial conditions and reduced income tax rates should continue to undergird consumer spending and the data on retail sales for July displayed relatively impressive gains, negative wealth effects from falling stock market prices, declining payrolls, and sluggish income gains--should they persist--might well depress consumer expenditures over coming months. In this regard, some recent anecdotal reports pointed to weaker retail sales, importantly including motor vehicles. There also were some recent indications of declining consumer confidence, and many retailers had become less optimistic about the outlook for sales over the balance of the year.

Homebuilding generally had remained robust in recent months, as relatively low mortgage interest rates continued to offset weakness in employment and incomes and the negative effects of declining stock market wealth. Most regions continued to report strong housing markets, albeit with evidence of some weakening in sales of high-priced homes in a number of areas. For now, however, there were few signs that overall housing activity might be softening, though members noted that potentially bearish factors relating to the outlook for consumer spending might at some point also affect housing.

With household spending already elevated relative to income and its rate of increase unlikely to strengthen materially, if at all, under foreseeable near-term economic conditions, the anticipated upturn in overall economic expansion would depend critically on business investment spending and in turn on improved prospects for business profits and cash flows. Business capital expenditures appeared to be slowing sharply further after posting large declines earlier in the year in conjunction with the marking down of the expected growth of demand for and profitability of capital equipment, weak sales, the emergence of substantial excess capacity in many industries, notably in high-tech facilities, and the resulting decline in earnings. Market forecasts of business profits were progressively being reduced, and as a consequence members saw little likelihood of a marked turnaround in business capital investment over the months ahead despite some elements of strength such as sizable construction projects involving public utilities, energy, and, in some areas, public works. Indeed, history strongly suggested that capital spending might well fall below sustainable levels for a time as business firms over adjusted on the downside to previously excessive or misdirected buildups of capital resources. While the near-term outlook for business investment was not promising and considerable uncertainty surrounded the timing of the eventual upturn, members remained optimistic about the longer-term prospects for capital expenditures. In the context of a still favorable outlook for continued elevated rates of technological progress, business firms reportedly had not yet exploited many potentially profitable investment opportunities.

The persistence of substantial inventory liquidation was another negative factor in the current performance of the economy. While considerable progress reportedly had been made by numerous business firms in reducing their inventories to bring them into better alignment with sales, a rebound to inventory accumulation did not appear imminent for the economy as a whole. Unexpected weakness in final demands would, of course, lead to additional efforts to pare inventories, which would tend to damp and delay the rebound. Even so, leaner inventories had favorable implications for production going forward.

Fiscal policy developments were a supportive factor in the economy. The tax rebates currently being distributed undoubtedly were having a limited but positive effect on consumers, which likely would continue over coming months. The impetus could not be measured precisely, but it was reflected in available anecdotal reports. Moreover, the reductions in income tax rates would have an ongoing effect in boosting disposable household incomes. On the negative side, financial difficulties in a number of states were being met in part through higher taxes that implied at least some offset to the federal tax relief.

Many of the members expressed concern about what appeared to be cumulating weakness in numerous foreign economies that would feed back to the U.S. economy through reduced demand for U.S. exports and potentially through perceptions of greater risks in financial markets. A number of major industrial economies were growing more slowly than had been expected earlier in the summer. Moreover, severe economic and financial problems in a few developing nations could spill over to their trading partners and other similarly situated countries that could in turn have adverse repercussions more generally on the world economy.

The members generally viewed a modest decline in inflation as a reasonable prospect, at least for a while. Reports from around the nation indicated that labor market conditions had eased, though they remained generally tight and workers available to fill a variety of skilled job openings continued to be in short supply. On balance, however, upward pressures on labor compensation appeared to be easing somewhat despite large increases in the costs of medical care. Competitive pressures continued to make it very difficult for business firms to raise their prices and there were no signs that widespread discounting might be coming to an end. An apparent downtrend in the costs of energy was another favorable factor in the outlook for inflation. Some members expressed a degree of concern, however, about the longer-term outlook for inflation. Pressures on resources would rise as the anticipated upturn and possible above-trend growth brought the economy closer to full capacity utilization. An important uncertainty in this regard was the outlook for productivity, whose growth might have moderated from the unusually high growth rates of 1999 and 2000, with possibly adverse implications for labor costs at very low levels of unemployment.

In the Committee's discussion of policy for the intermeeting period ahead, all the members endorsed a proposal calling for a slight further easing in reserve conditions consistent with a 25 basis point reduction in the federal funds rate to a level of 3-1/2 percent. No member expressed a preference for leaving policy unchanged or easing by more than 25 basis points. The economy had continued to be weak--indeed, weaker than many had expected--and data and anecdotal reports from around the country had yet to point to persuasive signs of a turnaround. The monetary and fiscal policy stimulus already in train seemed adequate to promote and support an eventual appreciable rise in the growth of business activity to a pace near that of the economy's potential, but the strength and timing of the pickup remained uncertain and further weakness was a distinct threat in the nearer term. In particular, possible faltering in household expenditures at a time when business firms were still adjusting to inventory imbalances and to capital overinvestments would exacerbate the slowdown in the economy and delay its anticipated recovery. Growing concerns about foreign economies added to the current unease about potential near-term developments.

Against the considerable forces of restraint on aggregate demand, the federal funds rate had been lowered substantially and the monetary aggregates were growing rapidly, but some members noted that in a number of respects financial conditions did not indicate as much oncoming stimulus. Since the start of the year, long-term interest rates generally had not extended earlier declines, prices in equity markets had fallen substantially further, and the dollar had appreciated in foreign exchange markets. Accordingly, the inflation risks of some further monetary stimulus seemed limited and were outweighed by the need to lean against actual and potential shortfalls in demand and business activity.

The members recognized that in light of the lags in the effects of policy, the easing process probably would have to be terminated before available measures of economic activity provided clear evidence of a substantial strengthening trend. In the view of some members, this point might come relatively soon. Beyond the nearer term members also envisaged the desirability of moving preemptively to offset some of the extra monetary stimulus now in the economy in advance of inflation pressures beginning to build. The members were fully prepared to act on a timely basis, but several emphasized the recognition lags that would be involved in stopping and subsequently beginning to reverse the policy easing.

Given their views about the risks to the economy, notably over the nearer term, all the members supported the retention of the sentence in the press statement indicating that the risks continued to be weighted toward further weakness in the foreseeable future.