At its meeting on June 26-27, 2001, the Committee adopted a directive that called for maintaining conditions in reserve markets consistent with a decrease of 25 basis points in the intended level of the federal funds rate, to about 3¾ percent. This action was deemed appropriate in light of incoming information indicating somewhat weaker economic performance than most members had anticipated and the absence of firm evidence that the deceleration in the economic expansion had run its course or that output growth was about to rebound. With greater slack in labor and product markets and with inflation expectations contained, the members agreed that the balance of risks continued to be weighted toward conditions that could generate economic weakness in the foreseeable future.

Federal funds traded at rates near the Committee's reduced target level over the intermeeting period, and other short-term rates also fell. Market participants became less optimistic regarding the economic outlook over the intermeeting period, inducing widespread declines in longer-term Treasury yields over the period that were most pronounced at the shorter end of the coupon maturity spectrum. Except for the obligations of the most troubled sectors, declines in investment-grade corporate bond yields were about in line with those on Treasury issues of comparable maturity, leaving most risk spreads little changed on balance. A spate of weak second-quarter earnings reports and sizable reductions in analysts' earnings projections for the remainder of the year took a toll on equity markets, however, and broad stock market indexes moved down appreciably over the intermeeting interval.

The trade-weighted value of the dollar, after an extended period of strength, fell against most major foreign currencies, with much of the decline occurring in the days just before this meeting. The decline was particularly marked against the yen, the euro, and the Swiss franc. In contrast, the dollar was little changed against the currencies of some major trading partners, including Canada and Mexico.

Growth in the broad monetary aggregates remained strong in July but was below the average pace over the first half of the year. Despite some recent slowing, deposit growth was held up by a flight to liquidity and safety in light of the poor performance and substantial volatility in equity markets. Foreign demands for U.S. currency also boosted money growth in July.