The information reviewed at the September 21 meeting indicated that the pace of the economic expansion slowed in recent months and that inflation remained low. Private businesses increased employment modestly in August, but the length of the workweek was unchanged and the unemployment rate remained elevated. Industrial production advanced at a solid pace in July and rose further in August. Consumer spending continued to increase at a moderate rate in July and appeared to move up again in August. The rise in business outlays for equipment and software looked to have moderated recently following outsized gains in the first half of the year. Housing activity weakened further, and nonresidential construction remained depressed. After falling in the previous three months, headline consumer prices rose in July and August as energy prices retraced some of their earlier decline while prices for core goods and services edged up slightly.

The labor market situation continued to improve only slowly. The average monthly increase in private payroll employment over the three months ending in August was small and was less than the average gain earlier in the year. Moreover, average weekly hours of all employees were little changed, on net, in recent months after rising during the first half of the year. The unemployment rate ticked up in August and remained close to the level that has prevailed since the beginning of this year. The labor force participation rate moved up a little in August but was still low. Initial claims for unemployment insurance remained at an elevated level over the intermeeting period. In addition, other indicators of labor demand, such as measures of hiring and job vacancies, did not improve.

Industrial production increased solidly in July and then rose more moderately in August. Manufacturing production was boosted in July by a pickup in motor vehicle assemblies as automakers replenished lean stocks at dealers. However, the production of motor vehicles was pared back in August. More broadly, the output of high-technology items and other business equipment expanded at a solid pace in July and August. The output of utilities declined over the past two months after it was boosted by unseasonably hot weather in the preceding two months. Capacity utilization in manufacturing ticked up further in August from its mid-2009 low, but it was still substantially below its longer-run average.

Real personal consumption expenditures rose modestly in July, similar to the average increase over the preceding two months. Data for retail sales and the sales of light motor vehicles pointed to a moderate gain in real consumer spending in August. Real disposable personal income declined a bit in July after increasing at a solid pace in the second quarter. The personal saving rate edged down in July but remained near the high level registered in the second quarter. Indicators of household net worth were mixed; home prices moved down in July, while equity prices inched up, on balance, over the intermeeting period. After falling back in July, consumer confidence remained downbeat in August and early September, with households more pessimistic about the outlook for their personal financial situations and general economic conditions.

Housing activity, which had been supported earlier in the year by the availability of homebuyer tax credits, softened further in July. Sales of new single-family homes remained at a depressed level. Sales of existing homes fell substantially in July, and the index of pending home sales suggested that sales were muted in August. Starts of new single-family houses in July and August were below the low level seen in June, and the number of new permits issued in August appeared to signal that little improvement in new homebuilding was likely in September. House prices declined modestly in July after changing little, on net, in recent months. The interest rate for 30-year fixed-rate conforming mortgages remained essentially unchanged over the intermeeting period at a historically low level.

Real business spending on equipment and software appeared to have slowed in July after expanding rapidly over the preceding three quarters. Both new orders and shipments of nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft dipped in July. Moreover, survey indicators of business conditions softened further in August. Incoming construction data indicated that business investment in nonresidential structures decreased in the second quarter but at a slower pace than over the preceding year. Increases in spending for drilling and mining structures were more than offset by continued declines in outlays for other types of nonresidential buildings. Despite some indications that the difficult financial conditions in commercial real estate markets might be stabilizing, credit was still tight and vacancy rates for office and commercial space remained high. In the second quarter, businesses appeared to build their inventories at a faster pace than earlier in the year, but ratios of inventories to sales for most industries did not point to any sizable overhangs.

Inflation remained subdued in recent months. Headline consumer prices rose in July and August as energy prices rebounded after their decline over the previous three months. At the same time, prices for core goods and services moved up slightly. At earlier stages of production, producer prices of core intermediate materials moved down, on net, during July and August while most indexes of spot commodity prices increased. Survey measures of short- and long-term inflation expectations were essentially unchanged.

Unit labor costs at the end of the second quarter remained below their level one year earlier, as labor compensation continued to increase only slowly and labor productivity stayed near its recent high level. Hourly labor compensation--as measured by compensation per hour in the nonfarm business sector and the employment cost index--rose modestly during the year ending in the second quarter. More recently, the year-over-year change in average hourly earnings of all employees in July and August remained subdued. While output per hour in the nonfarm business sector declined in the second quarter following large increases in the preceding three quarters, productivity was still well above its level one year earlier.

The U.S. international trade deficit narrowed in July after widening in June. The rise in exports in July more than offset their decline in June, as overseas sales of capital goods rose sharply. Most other major categories of exports were little changed in July, although exports of automotive products posted their first decline since May 2009. The narrowing of the trade deficit in July also reflected a broad-based decline in imports following their large increase in June. Imports of consumer goods fell substantially in July, while imports of industrial supplies, capital goods, and automotive products also moved down. In contrast, imports of petroleum products remained about flat in July.

Increases in foreign economic activity were robust, on average, in the second quarter. In particular, gross domestic product (GDP) grew strongly in the emerging market economies, even though gains in China apparently moderated. Among the advanced foreign economies, Europe posted a notable rise in economic activity in the second quarter; rapid expansion in Germany more than offset weaker outcomes in other euro-area economies, particularly those experiencing financial stress related to concerns about their fiscal situations and potential vulnerabilities in their banking sectors. In Canada and Japan, the rise in real GDP slowed noticeably in the second quarter. Recent indicators of foreign economic activity for the third quarter, including data on exports, production, and purchasing managers indexes, generally pointed to a slowing in the pace of expansion in economic activity abroad. Headline inflation rates in foreign economies generally were restrained in the second quarter by a deceleration in food and energy prices, but prices appeared to be rising a bit more rapidly of late.