The decision by the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) at its August meeting to maintain the 0 to 1/4 percent target range for the federal funds rate was widely anticipated, but Treasury yields declined as investors reportedly focused on the indication in the accompanying statement that principal payments from agency debt and MBS in the Federal Reserve's portfolio would be reinvested in longer-term Treasury securities and also on the characterization of the economic outlook, which was seen as somewhat more downbeat than expected. The expected path of the federal funds rate moved down early in the intermeeting period in response to weaker-than-expected economic data. The Chairman's Jackson Hole speech was reportedly viewed by market participants as more encouraging about economic prospects and as providing more clarity about the policy options available to the FOMC, but it did not have a sustained effect on policy expectations. The expected path of the federal funds rate rose for a time following the more-positive-than-expected data on manufacturing activity and the labor market released in early September, but the path ended the intermeeting period down on balance.

Yields on nominal Treasury coupon securities were volatile and ended the period somewhat lower, particularly for intermediate- and longer-term maturities. In addition to Federal Reserve communications and news about the economic outlook, market participants pointed to strong demand for long-duration assets by institutional investors and speculation about additional large-scale asset purchases by the Federal Reserve as factors contributing to the drop in longer-term yields. Five-year inflation compensation based on Treasury inflation-protected securities (TIPS) fell, while forward inflation compensation 5 to 10 years ahead edged up, on net, over the intermeeting period but remained at a lower level than in the spring. Treasury auctions over the intermeeting period were generally well received. Yields on investment- and speculative-grade corporate bonds moved roughly in line with those on comparable-maturity Treasury securities, leaving risk spreads little changed. Measures of liquidity in secondary markets for corporate bonds remained stable. In the secondary market for syndicated leveraged loans, the average bid price moved up and bid-asked spreads edged down.

Conditions in short-term funding markets continued to improve following the recent stresses related to concerns about financial stability in Europe. In dollar funding markets, spreads of term London interbank offered rates (or Libor) over those on overnight index swaps fell further at most horizons over the intermeeting period. Spreads on unsecured financial commercial paper were little changed at low levels. In secured funding markets, spreads on asset-backed commercial paper remained narrow, and rates on repurchase agreements involving various types of collateral held steady. In the September Senior Credit Officer Opinion Survey on Dealer Financing Terms (SCOOS), dealers indicated, on net, that they loosened credit terms applicable to several important classes of counterparties and types of collateral over the past three months amid increased demand for funding for most types of securities covered in the survey.

Broad U.S. stock price indexes edged up, on balance, over the intermeeting period, and option-implied volatility on the S&P 500 index was little changed on net. The spread between the staff's estimate of the expected real return on equities over the next 10 years and an estimate of the expected real return on a 10-year Treasury note--a rough measure of the equity risk premium--remained at an elevated level. Bank stocks underperformed the broader equity market and continued to be more volatile, while credit default swap spreads for large banking organizations edged up. The greater volatility in bank stocks reportedly reflected, in part, the effects of domestic and international financial regulatory reform efforts.

Net debt financing by U.S. nonfinancial corporations remained robust in August. Gross bond issuance was strong, a pattern that appeared to persist into the first part of September. Meanwhile, nonfinancial commercial paper outstanding contracted as very low yields on corporate bonds led to some substitution toward longer-term debt. Measures of the credit quality of nonfinancial corporations remained solid. The pace of initial public offerings and seasoned equity offerings by nonfinancial firms slowed in August, partly reflecting typical seasonal patterns.

Commercial real estate markets continued to face difficult financial conditions, although some further signs emerged that this sector might be stabilizing. The prices of commercial properties appeared to have edged up in the first half of the year, and the volume of commercial real estate sales rose again in August. A few small commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS) deals were issued over the intermeeting period and were reportedly well received by investors, consistent with an easing of conditions and renewed interest in the CMBS market since the beginning of the year that was reported in the SCOOS. Nonetheless, the volume of CMBS issuance in 2010 remained quite low compared with the levels seen before the onset of the financial crisis, and total commercial mortgage debt continued to contract amid further increases in delinquency rates on commercial mortgages.

For households, record-low mortgage rates supported a relatively high level of refinancing activity, but many borrowers reportedly remained unable to refinance because of insufficient home equity or poor credit histories. Consumer credit declined in the second quarter and appeared to contract further in July. Issuance of consumer asset-backed securities in August proceeded at a moderate pace that was similar to that posted in July. Spreads of interest rates on consumer loans relative to the yield on the two-year Treasury note were little changed on balance. The credit quality of consumer loans continued to improve; delinquency and charge-off rates for most types of loans dropped further in recent months, although they remained elevated.

Bank credit expanded in August, reflecting significant purchases of Treasury securities and agency MBS by large banks. Bank loans continued to contract, but the pace of contraction slowed noticeably from earlier in the year. Commercial and industrial loans rose slightly in July, the first increase on a monthly basis since late 2008, and held steady in August. In addition, holdings of closed-end residential mortgage loans expanded moderately in August, reportedly spurred by refinancing activity. However, both home equity loans and commercial real estate loans contracted further in August, while consumer loans fell sharply.

On average over July and August, M2 expanded at a rate slightly above its pace in the second quarter. Liquid deposits grew fairly rapidly over the two months, reflecting in part a compositional shift from other lower-yielding M2 assets. Currency trended higher, while small time deposits and retail money market mutual funds contracted further, as yields on these assets remained at extremely low levels.

In foreign markets, concerns about the global economic outlook prompted substantial drops in equity prices and benchmark sovereign bond yields in many countries in August, and the dollar appreciated broadly on safe-haven demands. In September, however, as better economic news led to some improvement in investor sentiment, equity prices and bond yields moved back up, and the dollar retraced its earlier appreciation. Yield spreads relative to German bunds on the 10-year sovereign bonds of Greece, Ireland, and Portugal widened to near-record levels over the period. Moreover, euro-area bank stock prices fell on continued concerns about the condition of some troubled institutions.

With the yen at a 15-year high against the dollar in nominal terms, Japan's Ministry of Finance intervened in currency markets on September 15 to buy dollars against yen, and the Bank of Japan (BOJ) noted that it would continue to provide ample liquidity. In reaction, the yen depreciated about 3 percent against the dollar, essentially reversing its rise over the preceding part of the intermeeting period. The European Central Bank (ECB) said that it would continue to provide term liquidity by offering several more full-allotment three-month refinancing operations through the end of the year. In contrast to the continued accommodative stance of the ECB and the BOJ, the Bank of Canada increased its target for the overnight rate by 25 basis points to 1 percent, its third hike since June. Several other central banks tightened monetary policy over the intermeeting period, including those of Chile, India, Indonesia, Sweden, and Thailand.