In the Committee's discussion of current and prospective economic developments, members commented that an unusually high degree of uncertainty had made it very difficult to assess the factors underlying the performance of the economy. Widespread indications of a strengthening economy near the end of last year through the first part of this year had given way to a disappointing economic performance more recently. It seemed clear that an outbreak of war with Iraq was imminent and that this prospect was having a damping effect on the economy. Uncertainty about the effects of the war had contributed to higher energy prices, lower equity prices, declines in measures of household confidence, and a tendency for households and especially businesses to postpone making commitments. But it was also possible that a part of the recent weakness might reflect underlying economic conditions. In the circumstances, some clarification of the Iraqi situation, which might occur in the relatively near future, should improve the Committee's ability to assess ongoing developments, though uncertainties would remain. Beyond the near term, members acknowledged that relatively subdued growth for a time could not be ruled out, but many commented that the conditions were in place for a strengthening expansion. In this regard they referred to the positive effects on business profits and consumer incomes of persisting gains in productivity, stimulative monetary and fiscal policies, and accommodative financial and bank lending markets. The likelihood of continued low or even declining inflation was high, especially given expectations of persisting slack in resource utilization.

In the course of the Committee's review of developments in key sectors of the economy, members underscored the retarding effects of reduced confidence and heightened caution on household and business spending but noted that it was difficult to attribute the relative contributions of geopolitical risk and worries about the economy to the emergence of weaker spending. In any event, consumer expenditures appeared to have been held back recently by the impact of higher energy costs, weak labor markets, and severe winter weather in the eastern part of the United States. Sales of motor vehicles had declined substantially since the start of the year despite the introduction of enhanced sales incentives. Non-automotive retail sales, after a pickup at the end of 2002 that had extended through the first several weeks of this year, had weakened more recently. Whether the recent experience augured further softening in consumer spending was uncertain, but some members commented that this weak performance was not reassuring with regard to forecasts of substantial strengthening of the expansion later this year. Many observed, however, that a favorable outcome to the hostilities in the Middle East and lower oil prices in line with quotations in futures markets should generate a positive response in equity markets, boost consumer sentiment, and foster a rebound in consumer spending as the year progressed.

Housing activity had held up well on the whole, despite a negative report on housing starts for February, and indeed was displaying continued strength in many parts of the nation. In numerous areas, however, sales of high-end homes had continued to lag and there were reports of a softening in the middle-market single-family sector in some areas. Members also cited indications of overbuilding in some parts of the country, notably of multifamily housing. On balance, generally robust homebuilding activity was expected to persist against the backdrop of low mortgage interest rates and rising household incomes.

With regard to the outlook for business capital expenditures, members commented that a variety of factors likely would induce business firms to continue to hold back on new investment initiatives, at least over the near term. Indeed, there was as yet no persuasive evidence that business fixed investment would provide the needed support for the strengthening in overall economic activity. Geopolitical uncertainties, notably those relating to developments in Iraq, frequently were cited by business contacts as a major reason for caution, but other factors inhibiting capital expenditures evidently included excess capacity and limited prospects for profits because of increased energy, insurance, pension, and other costs and a concomitant inability to raise selling prices. At the same time, there was only limited evidence thus far that the partial-expensing tax incentive, scheduled to expire in September 2004, was having a measurable effect on outlays for new equipment and software. The outlook for commercial construction activity was especially downbeat because of high vacancy rates in industrial and office structures in many areas, and a general upturn in such construction was viewed as unlikely to occur for an extended period of time. While resolution of some of the uncertainties relating to Iraq seemed likely in the relatively near term, many business contacts reported that they would continue to hold down their capital investments until demand for their goods and services and related profit opportunities displayed clear signs of significant improvement. Some members nonetheless referred to indications of increasing expenditures for various categories of high-tech equipment and software, and they noted that impetus to demand from a positive outcome in the war against Iraq should have a favorable effect on business capital spending, especially if it were accompanied by a rally in the stock market.

Many firms were trying to keep their inventories at especially low levels in light of their concerns that projected sales might not materialize. Members cited the resulting lean inventories as a positive element in the outlook for economic activity, given likely efforts by business firms to maintain inventories in broad aligment with anticipated growth over time in final sales.

Federal government spending continued to rise rapidly, led by large increases in defense and homeland security expenditures, and members noted that the resulting impetus to growth might be augmented by passage of a fiscal stimulus package in line with that proposed by the Administration. Considerable uncertainty surrounded the eventual size of such a package or even whether it would be enacted this year. A partial offset to the federal fiscal stimulus stemmed from efforts to address deepening budget crises in a number of states and their adverse implications for many local economies.

Against the background of persistent strength in productivity growth and continued low levels of capital and labor utilization, inflation would likely remain subdued going forward. Indeed, members saw further disinflation in core prices as a distinct possibility over the next several quarters. At the same time, the outlook for oil prices and energy prices more generally was uncertain and, despite market expectations, oil prices might remain relatively high in the event of adverse developments in Iraq and in some other major oil producing countries that were experiencing serious economic and political problems. However, high oil prices, should they persist, were likely to have more of an effect in damping demand than in raising inflation, given well-entrenched expectations of low inflation.

In the Committee's discussion of policy for the intermeeting period ahead, the members unanimously supported a proposal to maintain an unchanged policy stance. While the economic expansion had displayed signs of faltering in recent weeks, the reasons for and hence the duration of any period of weakness could not be reliably ascertained. In that regard, members commented that as key geopolitical uncertainties diminished or were resolved, the Committee would be in a much better position to assess economic trends and a desirable course for monetary policy. Monetary policy was positioned to accommodate a strengthening economic performance that seemed likely to materialize once key uncertainties and related concerns began to decrease, perhaps in the relatively near future, and business and consumer sentiment started to improve. To be sure, the timing and speed of a pickup in economic activity were not clear, and some members saw continued growth below potential as the primary risk for the near term. The members concluded that the prudent course in current circumstances was to maintain a steady policy stance, a high degree of vigilance, and a readiness to respond promptly as needed to the emergence of clearer evidence relating to the performance of the economy. In the latter regard, some members cautioned that the Committee might well need to adjust its policy in circumstances that continued to be characterized by a substantial degree of uncertainty.