At its meeting on January 28-29, 2003, the Committee agreed on a directive that called for maintaining conditions in reserve markets consistent with keeping the federal funds rate around 1-1/4 percent and retained a balanced risks assessment. The Committee noted that the economy continued to grow slowly, but monetary policy and financial conditions were quite accommodative and the prospects for an appreciable strengthening of the economic expansion over time remained favorable. The Committee concluded that a wait-and-see policy stance was desirable pending an improved basis for judging the ongoing performance of the economy. The Committee's decision was widely anticipated and elicited little reaction in financial markets. However, with the likelihood of war perceived to have increased, investor wariness apparently intensified downward pressure on equity prices and interest rates over the intermeeting period. Treasury bond yields declined somewhat, perhaps reflecting both expectations of lower policy rates and greater investor demands for safety. Rates in private debt markets fell by somewhat more than comparable-maturity Treasury yields. Declines in major equity indexes were amplified by lackluster earnings reports and disappointing data on auto sales, labor market conditions, and consumer confidence.

The dollar changed little on balance over the intermeeting period in terms of an index of major foreign currencies, though the dollar fluctuated widely in the latter part of the period in reflection of market concerns about geopolitical uncertainties. The dollar depreciated against the Canadian dollar, which was supported by a small monetary tightening action by the Bank of Canada to trim inflationary pressures. By contrast, the dollar appreciated slightly against the British pound, partly in response to an unexpected easing by the Bank of England to counter downward pressures on economic activity. The European Central Bank also cut its key policy rates in response to further signs of economic weakness in major euro-area countries. The dollar was also little changed against an index of the currencies of other important U.S. trading partners.

M2 grew rapidly in February, owing mainly to robust inflows to liquid deposits. Earlier filings for tax refunds and hefty mortgage prepayments associated with refinancing activity likely were factors in the strength of M2. In addition, investors might have seen liquid deposits as a safe haven at a time of considerable volatility in equity markets.