The information reviewed at this meeting suggested that growth of economic activity remained subpar in the opening months of the year. While the underlying demand for residential housing continued to be robust and government outlays evidently were rising, the expansion of consumer spending seemed to have slowed, and outlays for capital spending were still very sluggish in an environment of business uncertainty and pessimism. Declining motor vehicle output held down overall industrial production, and the labor market weakened further. Consumer price inflation as measured by the core CPI decelerated over the past year, but steep increases in energy prices boosted overall price inflation.

Private nonfarm payroll employment had fallen sharply on balance in recent months, though the quite large February decline may have been exaggerated by bad weather, military reserve call-ups, and seasonal adjustment difficulties. February job losses in manufacturing were at about the same pace as seen over the past year. However, layoffs in construction surged, likely reflecting the unusually adverse winter weather conditions over much of the country. There were widespread declines in employment in the service sector, particularly in industries that had experienced steady growth last year. Job losses in the transportation industry seemed to have been associated in part with higher fuel costs. The unemployment rate inched up to 5.8 percent in February, and the most recent readings on initial claims for unemployment insurance suggested that labor market conditions remained soft in March.

Industrial production edged up in February after a sharp rise in January. Electricity generation increased substantially in response to unseasonably cold weather in much of the East, and mining production picked up. Manufacturing was pulled down in February by a slump in motor vehicle assemblies, but the output of high-tech goods registered another sizable gain, reflecting continuing growth in the production of semiconductors and computers, and output of goods other than motor vehicles and high-tech goods was unchanged. With manufacturing production lower, capacity utilization in manufacturing slipped somewhat in February to a rate substantially below its long-run average.

Retail sales were lower on balance in January and February, partly reflecting a decline in motor vehicle sales in both months and snowstorms that kept many consumers at home in February. In addition, rising energy prices eroded part of the sluggish gains in consumer incomes, and both consumer sentiment and net worth deteriorated noticeably.

With mortgage rates remaining near historical lows, strength in residential housing demand carried through the early part of this year. However, bad weather in February disrupted single-family construction activity and single-family starts fell sharply from January's very high level. Sales of both new and existing homes slipped noticeably in January but remained at elevated levels. In the multifamily sector, where vacancy rates are high and rents have fallen, starts dropped considerably to about the average pace recorded over the past three years.

Business investment on equipment and software increased briskly in the fourth quarter of last year as outlays for aircraft climbed sharply and other major categories recorded gains. In January, a rise in shipments of nontransportation capital equipment suggested that the demand for such goods on the part of businesses was beginning to respond to continued increases in output and further declines in the cost of capital. In the high-tech sector, shipments of computing equipment surged in January, and shipments of communications equipment registered sizable gains. Outside the high-tech sector, however, shipments edged down. Data on orders for durable equipment placed in December and January suggested that shipments could strengthen in the coming months. In the nonresidential sector, construction activity slowed further in the fourth quarter, with most categories recording sizable declines in expenditures. Many indicators of market conditions in the nonresidential sector continued to weaken, with vacancy rates rising and rents generally falling, but an upturn in property values suggested that a turnaround in rents might be near.

The book value of manufacturing and trade inventories excluding motor vehicles edged down in January following buildups of stocks in the third and fourth quarters of last year. The aggregate inventory-sales ratio for this sector had trended down from the high levels recorded in mid-2001 and reached a new low in January, with few imbalances evident across industries.

The U.S. trade deficit in goods and services narrowed substantially in January as the value of exports partially reversed a large December decline and the value of imports fell from elevated November and December levels. The rise in exports and the drop in imports were broadly spread across goods categories. Available information on economic activity abroad indicated that most of the major foreign economies experienced sluggish growth late in 2002 that seemed likely to persist in the first quarter. Economic expansion in the euro area weakened further in the fourth quarter and Canadian output decelerated sharply, but growth in Japan was relatively well sustained at a modest pace. In the emerging-market economies, conditions in South America generally remained fragile, the pace of economic recovery in Mexico appeared to have slowed somewhat, and growth was generally restrained in much of emerging Asia. Economic growth in China remained strong.

Most measures of core consumer prices and labor costs decelerated in the twelve-month period ended in January. However, the recent jump in gasoline and heating oil prices, reflecting a sharp run-up in crude oil prices and unusually cold weather in the Midwest and East, significantly boosted overall consumer price inflation in the twelve months ended in January. At the producer level, core price inflation for finished goods eased in the twelve-month interval ending in February. With regard to labor costs, hourly compensation for private industry workers decelerated noticeably in 2002, with growth of both the salary and benefits components slowing on a year-over-year basis. Growth in average hourly earnings of production or nonsupervisory workers also slowed in the twelve months ending in February. The deceleration in both labor measures likely reflected in part the slack in labor markets.