Developments in Europe continued to be a central focus for investors over the intermeeting period as concerns persisted about the prospects for a durable solution to the European fiscal and financial difficulties. Nevertheless, market sentiment toward Europe appeared to brighten a bit, and U.S. economic data releases were somewhat better than investors expected, leading to some improvement in conditions in financial markets.

On balance over the period, the expected path for the federal funds rate implied by money market futures quotes was essentially unchanged. Yields on nominal Treasury securities rose slightly at intermediate and longer maturities. Indicators of inflation compensation derived from nominal and inflation-protected Treasury securities edged up.

U.S. financial institutions reportedly retained ready access to short-term funding markets; there were no significant dislocations in those markets over year-end. Dollar funding pressures for European banks eased slightly. While spreads of the London interbank offered rate (Libor) over overnight index swap (OIS) rates of the same maturity remained elevated, rates for unsecured overnight commercial paper (CP) issued by some entities with European parents declined substantially following the lowering of charges on the central bank liquidity swap lines with the Federal Reserve, the implementation by the European Central Bank (ECB) of its first three-year longer-term refinancing operation (LTRO), and the passage of year-end. In secured funding markets, spreads of overnight asset-backed CP rates over overnight unsecured CP rates also declined, and the general collateral repurchase agreement, or repo, market continued to function normally.

Indicators of financial stress eased somewhat over the intermeeting period, although they generally continued to be elevated. Market-based measures of possible spillovers from troubles at particular financial firms to the broader financial system were below their levels in the fall but remained above their levels prior to the financial crisis. Initial fourth-quarter earnings reports for large bank holding companies were mixed relative to market expectations, with poor capital market revenues weighing on the profits of institutions with significant trading operations. Although credit default swap (CDS) spreads of most large domestic bank holding companies remained elevated, they moved lower over the intermeeting period, and some institutions took advantage of easing credit conditions by issuing significant quantities of new long-term debt. Equity prices of most large domestic financial institutions outperformed the broader market, on net, over the intermeeting period. Nonetheless, the ratio of the market value of bank equity to its book value remained low for some large financial firms. Responses to the December Senior Credit Officer Opinion Survey on Dealer Financing Terms indicate that, since August, securities dealers have devoted increased time and attention to the management of concentrated credit exposures to other financial intermediaries, pointing to increased concern over counterparty risk.

Broad equity price indexes increased more than 6 percent, on net, over the intermeeting period, and option-implied equity volatility declined notably. Yields on investment-grade corporate bonds declined a bit relative to those on comparable-maturity Treasury securities, while spreads of speculative-grade corporate bond yields over yields on Treasury securities decreased noticeably. Indicators of the credit quality of nonfinancial corporations continued to be solid. Conditions in the secondary market for leveraged loans were stable, with median bid prices about unchanged. Financing conditions for large nonfinancial businesses generally remained favorable. Bond issuance by investment-grade nonfinancial corporations was robust, though below its elevated November pace, while issuance by lower-rated firms slowed, likely owing in part to seasonal factors. Issuance of leveraged loans was relatively modest in the fourth quarter compared with its rapid pace earlier in the year. Share repurchases and cash-financed mergers by nonfinancial firms maintained their recent strength in the third quarter, leaving net equity issuance deeply negative.

Financing conditions for commercial real estate (CRE) remained strained, and issuance of commercial mortgage-backed securities was very light in the fourth quarter. Responses to the January Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices (SLOOS) indicated that bank CRE lending standards continued to be extraordinarily tight, but some banks reported having reduced the spreads of loan rates over their cost of funds (compared with a year ago) for the first time since 2007. Delinquency rates on commercial mortgages remained elevated, and CRE price indexes continued to fluctuate around levels substantially lower than their 2007 peaks.

Conditions in residential mortgage markets remained extremely tight. Although mortgage interest rates and yields on current-coupon agency MBS edged down to near their historical lows, mortgage refinancing activity continued to be subdued amid tight underwriting standards and low levels of home equity. Mortgage delinquency rates, while improving gradually, remained elevated relative to pre-crisis norms, and house prices continued to move lower. The price of subprime residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS), as measured by the ABX index, rose over the intermeeting period, consistent with similar changes for other higher-risk fixed-income securities. RMBS prices were supported by reports of the sale of a significant portion of the RMBS held in the Maiden Lane II portfolio.

On the whole, conditions in consumer credit markets showed signs of improvement. Consumer credit increased in November, while delinquency rates on credit card loans in securitized pools held steady in November at historically low levels. Data on credit card solicitations and from responses to the January SLOOS suggested that lending standards on consumer loans continued to ease modestly.

Financing conditions for state and local governments were mixed. Gross long-term issuance of municipal bonds remained robust in December, with continued strength in new issuance for capital projects. CDS spreads for states inched down further over the intermeeting period, and yields on long-term general obligation municipal bonds fell notably. However, downgrades of municipal bonds continued to substantially outpace upgrades in the third quarter.

In the fourth quarter, bank credit continued to increase as banks accumulated agency MBS and growth of total loans picked up. Core loans--the sum of commercial and industrial (C&I) loans, real estate loans, and consumer loans--expanded modestly. Growth of C&I loans at domestic banks was robust but was partly offset by weakness at U.S. branches and agencies of European banks. Noncore loans rose sharply, on net, reflecting in part a surge in such loans at the U.S. branches and agencies of European institutions. Responses to the January SLOOS indicated that, in the aggregate, loan demand strengthened slightly and lending standards eased a bit further in the fourth quarter.

M2 increased at an annual rate of 5 1/4 percent in December, likely reflecting continued demand for safe and liquid assets given investor concerns over developments in Europe. In addition, demand deposits rose rapidly around year-end, reportedly because lenders in short-term funding markets chose to leave substantial balances with banks over the turn of the year. The monetary base increased in December, largely reflecting growth in currency. Reserve balances were roughly unchanged over the intermeeting period.

International financial markets seemed somewhat calmer over the intermeeting period than they had been in previous months, and the funding conditions faced by most European financial institutions and sovereigns eased somewhat in the wake of the ECB's first three-year LTRO. Short-term euro interest rates moved lower as euro-area institutions drew a substantial amount of three-year funds from the ECB, and dollar funding costs for European banks also appeared to decline. Spreads of yields on Italian and Spanish government debt over those on German bunds narrowed over the intermeeting period, with spreads on shorter-term debt falling particularly noticeably. The apparent improvement in market sentiment was not diminished by news late in the period that Standard & Poor's lowered its long-term sovereign bond ratings of nine euro-area countries and the European Financial Stability Facility or by news that negotiations over the terms of a voluntary private-sector debt exchange for Greece had not yet reached a conclusion.

The staff's broad index of the foreign exchange value of the dollar declined slightly over the intermeeting period. While the dollar fell against most other currencies, it appreciated against the euro. Foreign stock markets generally ended the period higher, with headline equity indexes in Europe and the emerging market economies up substantially, although emerging market equity and bond funds continued to experience outflows on net during the period.