The information reviewed at the January 24-25 meeting indicated that U.S. economic activity continued to expand moderately, while global growth appeared to be slowing. Overall conditions in the labor market improved further, although the unemployment rate remained elevated. Consumer price inflation was subdued, and measures of long-run inflation expectations remained stable.

The unemployment rate declined to 8.5 percent in December; however, both long-duration unemployment and the share of workers employed part time for economic reasons were still quite high. Private nonfarm employment continued to expand moderately, while state and local government employment decreased at a slower pace than earlier in 2011. Some indicators of firms' hiring plans improved. Initial claims for unemployment insurance edged lower, on balance, since the middle of December but remained at a level consistent with only modest employment growth.

Industrial production expanded in November and December, on net, and the rate of manufacturing capacity utilization moved up. Motor vehicle assemblies were scheduled to increase, on balance, in the first quarter of 2012, and broader indicators of manufacturing activity, such as the diffusion indexes of new orders from the national and regional manufacturing surveys, were at levels that suggested moderate growth in production in the near term.

Real personal consumption expenditures continued to rise moderately in November, boosted by spending for motor vehicles and other durables, although households' real disposable income edged down. In December, however, nominal retail sales excluding purchases at motor vehicle and parts outlets declined, and sales of motor vehicles also dropped slightly. Consumer sentiment improved further in early January but was still at a low level.

Activity in the housing market improved a bit in recent months but continued to be held down by the large overhang of foreclosed and distressed properties, uncertainty about future home prices, and tight underwriting standards for mortgage loans. Starts and permits for new single-family homes rose in November and December but remained only a little above the depressed levels seen earlier in 2011. Sales of new and existing homes also firmed somewhat in recent months, but home prices continued to trend lower.

Real business expenditures on equipment and software appeared to have decelerated in the fourth quarter. Nominal orders and shipments of nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft declined in November for a second month. Forward-looking indicators of firms' equipment spending were mixed: Some survey measures of business conditions and capital spending plans improved, but corporate bond spreads continued to be elevated and analysts' earnings expectations for producers of capital goods remained muted. Nominal business spending for nonresidential construction was unchanged in November and continued to be held back by high vacancy rates and tight credit conditions for construction loans. Inventories in most industries looked to be well aligned with sales, though motor vehicle stocks remained lean.

Monthly data for federal government spending pointed to a significant decline in real defense purchases in the fourth quarter. Real state and local government purchases seemed to be decreasing at a slower rate than during earlier quarters, as the pace of reductions in payrolls eased and construction spending leveled off in recent months.

The U.S. international trade deficit widened in November as exports fell and imports rose. Exports declined in most major categories, with the exception of consumer goods. Exports of industrial supplies and materials were especially weak, though the weakness was concentrated in a few particularly volatile categories and reflected, in part, declines in prices. The rise in imports largely reflected higher imports of petroleum products and automotive products, which more than offset decreases in most other broad categories of imports.

Overall U.S. consumer prices as measured by the price index for personal consumption expenditures were unchanged in November; as measured by the consumer price index, they were flat in December as well. Consumer energy prices decreased in recent months, while increases in consumer food prices slowed. Consumer prices excluding food and energy rose modestly in the past two months. Near-term inflation expectations from the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers were essentially unchanged in early January, and longer-term inflation expectations remained stable.

Available measures of labor compensation indicated that wage gains continued to be modest. Average hourly earnings for all employees posted a moderate gain in December, and their rate of increase from 12 months earlier remained slow.

Recent indicators of foreign economic activity pointed to a substantial deceleration in the fourth quarter of 2011. In the euro area, retail sales and industrial production were below their third-quarter averages in both October and November. Economic activity in much of Asia was disrupted by the effects of severe flooding in Thailand, which affected supply chains in the region. Twelve-month inflation rates receded in several advanced and emerging market economies, and most central banks maintained policy rates or eased further while continuing to provide significant liquidity support.