In their discussion of the economic situation and outlook, participants generally noted that incoming information pointed to a somewhat weaker outlook for spending than at the time of the October meeting. The decline in housing had steepened, and consumer outlays appeared to be softening more than anticipated, perhaps indicating some spillover from the housing correction to other components of spending. These developments, together with renewed strains in financial markets, suggested that growth in late 2007 and during 2008 was likely to be somewhat more sluggish than participants had indicated in their October projections. Still, looking further ahead, participants continued to expect that, aided by an easing in the stance of monetary policy, economic growth would gradually recover as weakness in the housing sector abated and financial conditions improved, allowing the economy to expand at about its trend rate in 2009. Participants thought that recent increases in energy prices likely would boost headline inflation temporarily, but with futures prices pointing to a gradual decline in oil prices and with pressures on resource utilization seen as likely to ease a bit, most participants continued to anticipate some moderation in core and especially headline inflation over the next few years.

Participants discussed in detail the resurgence of stresses in financial markets in November. The renewed stresses reflected evidence that the performance of mortgage-related assets was deteriorating further, potentially increasing the losses that were being borne in part by a number of major financial firms, including money-center banks, housing-related government-sponsored enterprises, investment banks, and financial guarantors. Moreover, participants recognized that some lenders might be exposed to additional losses:  Delinquency rates on credit card loans, auto loans, and other forms of consumer credit, while still moderate, had increased somewhat, particularly in areas hard hit by house price declines and mortgage defaults. Past and prospective losses appeared to be spurring lenders to tighten further the terms on new extensions of credit, not just in the troubled markets for nonconforming mortgages but, in some cases, for other forms of credit as well. In addition, participants noted that some intermediaries were facing balance sheet pressures and could become constrained by concerns about rating-agency or regulatory capital requirements. Among other factors, banks were experiencing unanticipated growth in loans as a result of continuing illiquidity in the market for leveraged loans, persisting problems in the commercial paper market that had sparked draws on back-up lines of credit, and more recently, consolidation of assets of off-balance-sheet affiliates onto banks' balance sheets.

Concerns about credit risk and the pressures on banks' balance sheet capacity appeared to be contributing to diminished liquidity in interbank markets and to a pronounced widening in term spreads for periods extending through year-end. A number of participants noted some potential for the Federal Reserve's new Term Auction Facility and accompanying actions by other central banks to ameliorate pressures in term funding markets. Participants recognized, however, that uncertainties about values of mortgage-related assets and related losses, and consequently strains in financial markets, could persist for quite some time.

Some participants cited more-positive aspects of recent financial developments. A number of large financial intermediaries had been able to raise substantial amounts of new capital. Moreover, credit losses and asset write-downs at regional and community banks had generally been modest; these institutions typically were not facing balance sheet pressures and reportedly had not tightened lending standards appreciably, except for those on real estate loans. And, although spreads on corporate bonds had widened over the intermeeting period, especially for speculative-grade issues, the cost of credit to most nonfinancial firms remained relatively low; nonfinancial firms outside of the real estate and construction sectors generally reported that credit conditions, while somewhat tighter, were not restricting planned investment spending; and consumer credit remained readily available for most households. Nonetheless, participants agreed that heightened financial stress posed increased downside risks to growth and made the outlook for the economy considerably more uncertain.

Participants noted the marked deceleration in consumer spending in the national data. Real personal consumption expenditures had shown essentially no growth in September and October, suggesting that tighter credit conditions, higher gasoline prices, and the continuing housing correction might be restraining growth in real consumer spending. Retailers reported weaker results in many regions of the country, but in some, retailers saw solid growth. Job growth rebounded somewhat in October and November, and participants expected continuing gains in employment and income to support rising consumer spending, though they anticipated slower growth of jobs, income, and spending than in recent years. However, consumer confidence recently had dropped by a sizable amount, leading some participants to voice concerns that household spending might increase less than currently anticipated.

Recent data and anecdotal information indicated that the housing sector was weaker than participants had expected at the time of the Committee's previous meeting. In light of elevated inventories of unsold homes and the higher cost and reduced availability of nonconforming mortgage loans, participants agreed that the housing correction was likely to be both deeper and more prolonged than they had anticipated in October. Moreover, rising foreclosures and the resulting increase in the supply of homes for sale could put additional downward pressure on prices, leading to a greater decline in household wealth and potentially to further disruptions in the financial markets.

Indicators of capital investment for the nation as a whole suggested solid but appreciably less rapid growth in business fixed investment during the fourth quarter than the third. Participants reported that firms in some regions and industries had indicated they would scale back capital spending, while contacts in other parts of the country or industries reported no such change. Similarly, business sentiment had deteriorated in many parts of the country, but in other areas firms remained cautiously optimistic. Anecdotal evidence generally suggested that inventories were not out of line with desired levels. Even so, participants expected that inventory accumulation would slow from its elevated third-quarter pace. Several participants remarked that, unlike residential real estate, commercial and industrial real estate activity remained solid in their Districts. But participants also noted the deterioration in the secondary market for commercial real estate loans and the possible effects of that development, should it persist, on building activity.

The available data showed strong growth abroad and solid gains in U.S. exports. Participants noted that rising foreign demand was benefiting U.S. producers of manufactured goods and agricultural products, in particular. Exports were unlikely to continue growing at the robust rate reported for the third quarter, but participants anticipated that the combination of the weaker dollar and still-strong, though perhaps less-rapid, growth abroad would mean continued firm growth in U.S. exports. Several participants observed, however, that strong growth in foreign economies and U.S. exports might not persist if global financial conditions were to deteriorate further.

Recent readings on inflation generally were seen as slightly less favorable than in earlier months, partly due to upward revisions to previously published data. Moreover, earlier increases in energy and food prices likely would imply higher headline inflation in the next few months, and past declines in the dollar would put upward pressure on import prices. Some participants said that higher input costs and rising prices of imports were leading more firms to seek price increases for goods and services. However, few business contacts had reported unusually large wage increases. Downward revisions to earlier compensation data, along with the latest readings on compensation and productivity, indicated only moderate pressure on unit labor costs. With futures prices pointing to a gradual decline in oil prices and with an anticipation of some easing of pressures on resource utilization, participants generally continued to see core PCE inflation as likely to trend down a bit over the next few years, as in their October projections, and headline inflation as likely to slow more substantially from its currently elevated level. Nonetheless, participants remained concerned about upside risks to inflation stemming from elevated prices of energy and non-energy commodities; some also cited the weaker dollar. Participants agreed that continued stable inflation expectations would be essential to achieving and sustaining a downward trend to inflation, that well-anchored expectations couldn't be taken for granted, and that policymakers would need to continue to watch inflation expectations closely.