The Committee's action at its October meeting was largely expected by market participants, although the assessment that the upside risks to inflation balanced the downside risks to growth was not fully anticipated and apparently led investors to revise up slightly the expected path for policy. During the intermeeting period, the release of the FOMC minutes and associated summary of economic projections, as well as various data releases, elicited only modest market reaction. In contrast, markets were buffeted by concerns about the potential adverse effects on credit availability and economic growth of sizable losses at large financial institutions and of financial market strains in general. Market participants marked down their expected path for policy substantially, and by the time of the December meeting, investors were virtually certain of a rate cut. Two-year Treasury yields fell on net over the intermeeting period by an amount about in line with revisions to policy expectations. Ten-year Treasury yields also declined, but less than shorter-term yields. The steepening of the yield curve was due mostly to sharply lower short- and intermediate-term forward rates, consistent with investors' apparently more pessimistic outlook for economic growth. TIPS yields fell less than their nominal counterparts, implying modest declines in inflation compensation both at the five-year and longer horizons.

After showing some signs of improvement in late September and October, conditions in financial markets worsened over the intermeeting period. Heightened worries about counterparty credit risk, balance sheet constraints, and liquidity pressures affected interbank funding markets and commercial paper markets, where spreads over risk-free rates rose to levels that were, in some cases, higher than those seen in August. Strains in those markets were exacerbated by concerns related to year-end pressures. In longer-term corporate markets, both investment- and speculative-grade credit spreads widened considerably; issuance slowed but remained strong. In housing finance, subprime mortgage markets stayed virtually shut, and spreads on jumbo loans apparently widened further. Spreads on conforming mortgage products also widened after reports of losses and reduced capital ratios at the housing-related government-sponsored enterprises. Broad-based equity indexes were volatile and ended the period down noticeably. Financial stocks were especially hard hit, dropping substantially more than the broad indexes. Similar stresses were evident in the financial markets of major foreign economies. The trade-weighted foreign exchange value of the dollar against major currencies moved up, on balance, over the intermeeting period.
Debt in the domestic nonfinancial sector was estimated to be increasing somewhat more slowly in the fourth quarter than in the third quarter. Nonfinancial business debt continued to expand strongly, supported by solid bond issuance and by a small rebound in the issuance of commercial paper. Bank loans outstanding also continued to rise rapidly. Household mortgage debt was expected to expand at a reduced rate in the fourth quarter, reflecting softer home prices and declining home sales, as well as a tightening in credit conditions for some borrowers. Nonmortgage consumer credit in the fourth quarter appeared to be expanding at a moderate pace. In November, M2 growth picked up slightly from its October rate. While liquid deposits continued to grow slowly, heightened demand for safety and liquidity appeared to boost holdings of retail money market mutual funds. Small time deposits continued to expand, likely in part due to high rates offered by some depository institutions to attract retail deposits. Currency outstanding was about flat in November.