The information reviewed at the December meeting indicated that, after the robust gains of the summer, economic activity decelerated significantly in the fourth quarter. Consumption growth slowed, and survey measures of sentiment dropped further. Many readings from the business sector were also softer:  Industrial production fell in October, as did orders and shipments of capital goods. Employment gains stepped down during the four months ending in November from their pace earlier in the year. Headline consumer price inflation moved higher in September and October as energy prices increased significantly; core inflation also rose but remained moderate.

The slowing in private employment gains was due in large part to the ongoing weakness in the housing market. Employment in residential construction posted its fourth month of sizable declines in November, and employment in housing-related sectors such as finance, real estate, and building-material and garden-supply retailers continued to trend down. Elsewhere, factory jobs declined again, while employment in most service-producing industries continued to move up. Aggregate hours of production or nonsupervisory workers edged up in October and November. Some indicators from the household survey also suggested softening in the labor market, but the unemployment rate held steady at 4.7 percent through November.

Industrial production fell in October after small increases in the previous two months. The index for motor vehicles and parts fell for the third consecutive month, and the index for construction supplies moved down for the fourth straight month. Materials output also declined in October, with production likely curbed by weak demand from the construction and motor vehicle sectors. Production in high-tech industries, however, increased modestly, and commercial aircraft production registered another solid gain. In November, output appeared to have edged up in manufacturing sectors (with the exception of the motor vehicles sector) for which weekly physical product data were available.

After posting notable gains in the summer, real consumer spending was nearly flat in September and October. Spending on goods excluding motor vehicles was little changed on net over that period. Spending on services edged down, reflecting an extraordinarily large drop in securities commissions in September. The most recent readings on weekly chain store sales as well as industry reports and surveys suggested subdued gains in November and an uneven start to the holiday shopping season. Sales of light motor vehicles in November remained close to the pace that had prevailed since the second quarter. Real disposable income was about unchanged in September and October. The Reuters/University of Michigan index of consumer sentiment ticked down further in early December as respondents took a more pessimistic view of the outlook for their personal finances and for business conditions in the year ahead.

In the housing market, new home sales were below their third-quarter pace, and sales of existing homes were flat in October following sharp declines in August and September. These declines likely were exacerbated by the deterioration in nonprime mortgage markets and by the higher interest rates and tighter lending conditions for jumbo loans. Single-family housing starts stepped down again in October after substantial declines in the June-September period. Yet, because of sagging sales, builders made only limited progress in paring down their substantial inventories. Single-family permit issuance continued along the steep downward trajectory that had begun two years earlier, which pointed toward further slowing in homebuilding over the near term. Multifamily starts rebounded in October from an unusually low reading in September, and the level of multifamily starts was near the midpoint of the range in which this series had fluctuated over the past ten years.

Real spending on equipment and software posted a solid increase in the third quarter. In October, however, orders and shipments of nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft declined, suggesting that some deceleration in spending was under way in the fourth quarter. The October decline in orders and shipments was led by weakness in the high-tech sector:  Shipments of computers and peripheral equipment declined while the industrial production index for computers was flat; orders and shipments for communications equipment plunged. Some of that weakness may have been attributable to temporary production disruptions stemming from the wildfires in Southern California; cutbacks in demand from large financial institutions affected by market turmoil may have contributed as well. In the transportation equipment category, purchases of medium and heavy trucks changed little, and orders data suggested that sales would remain near their current levels in the coming months. Orders for equipment outside high-tech and transportation rose in October, but shipments were about flat, pointing to a weaker fourth quarter for business spending after two quarters of brisk increases. Some prominent surveys of business conditions remained consistent with modest gains in spending on equipment and software during the fourth quarter, but other surveys were less sanguine. In addition, although the cost of capital was little changed for borrowers in the investment-grade corporate bond market, costs for borrowers in the high-yield corporate bond market were up significantly. In the third quarter, corporate cash flows appeared to have dropped off, leaving firms with diminished internally generated funds for financing investment. Data available through October suggested that nonresidential building activity remained vigorous.

Real nonfarm inventory investment excluding motor vehicles increased slightly faster in the third quarter than in the second quarter. Outside of motor vehicles, the ratio of book-value inventories to sales had ticked up slightly in September but remained near the low end of its range in recent years. Book-value estimates of the inventory investment of manufacturers--the only inventory data available beyond the third quarter--were up in October at about the third-quarter pace.

The U.S. international trade deficit narrowed slightly in September as an increase in exports more than offset higher imports. The September gain in exports primarily reflected higher exports of goods; services exports recorded moderate growth. Exports of agricultural products exhibited particularly robust growth, with both higher prices and greater volumes. Exports of industrial supplies and consumer goods also moved up smartly in September. Automotive products exports, in contrast, were flat, and capital goods exports fell, led by a decline in aircraft. The increase in imports primarily reflected higher imports of capital goods, with imports of computers showing particularly strong growth. Imports of automotive products, consumer goods, and services also increased. Imports of petroleum, however, were flat, and imports of industrial supplies fell.

Output growth in the advanced foreign economies picked up in the third quarter. In Japan, real output rebounded, led by exports. In the euro area, GDP growth returned to a solid pace in the third quarter on the back of a strong recovery in investment. In Canada and the United Kingdom, output growth moderated but remained robust, as vigorous domestic demand was partly offset by rapid growth of imports. Indicators of fourth-quarter activity in the advanced foreign economies were less robust on net. Confidence indicators had deteriorated in most major economies in the wake of the financial turmoil and remained relatively weak. In November, the euro-area and U.K. purchasing managers indexes for services were well below their level over the first half of the year; nevertheless they pointed to moderate expansion. Labor market conditions generally remained relatively strong in recent months. Incoming data on emerging-market economies were positive on balance. Overall, growth in emerging Asia moderated somewhat in the third quarter from its double-digit pace in the second quarter, but remained strong. Economic growth was also solid in Latin America, largely reflecting stronger-than-expected activity in Mexico.

In the United States, headline consumer price inflation increased in September and October from its low rates in the summer as the surge in crude oil prices began to be reflected in retail energy prices. In addition, though the rise in food prices in October was slower than in August and September, it remained above that of core consumer prices. Excluding food and energy, inflation was moderate, although it was up from its low rates in the spring. The pickup in core consumer inflation over this period reflected an acceleration in some prices that were unusually soft last spring, such as those for apparel, prescription drugs, and medical services, as well as nonmarket prices. On a twelve-month-change basis, core consumer price inflation was down noticeably from a year earlier. In October, the producer price index for core intermediate materials moved up only slightly for a second month, and the twelve-month increase in these prices was considerably below that of the year-earlier period. This pattern reflected, in part, a deceleration in the prices of a wide variety of construction materials, such as cement and gypsum, and in the prices of some metal products. In response to rising energy prices, household survey measures of expectations for year-ahead inflation picked up in November and then edged higher in December. Households' longer-term inflation expectations also edged up in both November and December. Average hourly earnings increased faster in November than in the previous two months. Over the twelve months that ended in November, however, this wage measure rose a bit more slowly than over the previous twelve months.

At its October meeting, the FOMC lowered its target for the federal funds rate 25 basis points, to 4-1/2 percent. The Board of Governors also approved a 25 basis point decrease in the discount rate, to 5 percent, leaving the gap between the federal funds rate target and the discount rate at 50 basis points. The Committee's statement noted that, while economic growth was solid in the third quarter and strains in financial markets had eased somewhat on balance, the pace of economic expansion would likely slow in the near term, partly reflecting the intensification of the housing correction. The Committee indicated that its action, combined with the policy action taken in September, should help forestall some of the adverse effects on the broader economy that might otherwise arise from the disruptions in financial markets and should promote moderate growth over time. Readings on core inflation had improved modestly during the year, but the statement noted that recent increases in energy and commodity prices, among other factors, may put renewed upward pressure on inflation. In this context, the Committee judged that some inflation risks remained and indicated that it would continue to monitor inflation developments carefully. The Committee also judged that, after this action, the upside risks to inflation roughly balanced the downside risks to growth. The Committee said that it would continue to assess the effects of financial and other developments on economic prospects and would act as needed to foster price stability and sustainable economic growth.