In their comments about developments in key sectors of the economy, meeting participants noted that, relative to several months ago, many firms now seemed somewhat more confident about the economic outlook. The anticipation of increased sales relative to existing production capacity and also desires to upgrade technology and improve competitiveness were leading firms to increase spending on equipment and software. Gains in capital spending had been quite strong last year, and while some of that spending might have been motivated by the year-end expiration of the partial-expensing provisions of the tax code, participants had seen little evidence to date that there would be a significant slowdown in the growth of spending in the early part of 2005. Low longer-term interest rates on corporate borrowing--reflecting in part narrow credit risk spreads--along with strong corporate profitability and improved balance sheets were continuing to support fairly brisk growth of capital expenditures. Low longer-term nominal interest rates were partly attributable to well-contained inflation expectations, but low real interest rates, along with slight declines in equity prices so far this year, might reflect lingering caution on the part of businesses about the outlook. Nevertheless, narrow credit spreads and risk premiums, along with abundant liquidity in financing markets, suggested that markets now assigned fairly low odds to significant downside risks.

Solid income gains, low interest rates, and consumer confidence were seen by participants as helping to sustain strong growth of household spending. Some firms had reported that holiday sales were higher than a year earlier and better than expected, while auto sales had responded strongly to incentives in December. The current low measured saving rate seemed mostly explainable by the strength of expected income gains, low interest rates, and the increase in household wealth resulting from the rise in equity and housing prices. Although the saving rate might well drift up over the next couple of years, participants generally thought it likely that consumer spending would continue growing at a strong pace. However, a marked slowing in home price appreciation and possible increases in longer-term interest rates, which would raise financing costs and reduce opportunities to extract equity from homes through refinancings and home equity loans, were seen as downside risks to the prospects for consumption spending and for housing construction.

Several participants mentioned that the low level of measured national saving, which implied a continued need for foreign financing of U.S. investment, and imbalances in the external sector imparted additional uncertainty to the longer-term economic outlook. The extent to which the federal budget deficit would decline over coming years was an open question. As regards the current account balance, some participants noted that the sharp drop in net exports in November probably reflected transitory factors in large part, as well as reported measurement errors. However, there has been little hard evidence as yet of a strengthening in the growth of spending in our foreign trading partners or of substantial effects on net exports from previous dollar declines. As a result, the external imbalance seemed likely to remain elevated, with a high level of uncertainty surrounding the prospects for and path of adjustment.

A number of participants noted continued modest gains in employment, though some commented that, based on anecdotal information, job growth seemed to have picked up of late. The increase in aggregate demand was expected to be sufficient over coming quarters to allow the rate of unemployment to continue to edge lower even as more people return to the labor force. Participants noted considerable uncertainty about the sustainable rate of resource utilization and about structural productivity growth. One participant suggested that, given the range of uncertainty, output might already be at or close to potential. Others commented that recent studies did not on balance support a conclusion that structural labor market shifts had caused resource slack to be lower than commonly estimated and that the flat pattern of growth in wages and compensation suggested an absence of pressures in labor markets. However, unit labor costs had accelerated over 2004 owing to a tapering off in productivity growth. If that slowing reflected a moderation in structural productivity growth and if firms believed that the associated increases in the growth rate of labor costs were permanent, these cost pressures might be passed through to consumer prices fairly quickly to preserve profit margins. While participants generally felt that the pace of underlying productivity growth remained robust, careful attention would need to be paid to developments regarding unit labor costs and profit margins.

Despite some pickup in costs, participants thought that the rate of core inflation likely would remain low and stable, assuming further removal of policy accommodation. Elevated price markups and profits, as well as slack in resource use, had helped absorb cost increases and put downward pressure on inflation and would likely continue to do so. Indeed, core inflation measures had eased off, both in the latest readings and on balance over the second half of 2004 relative to the first half. However, several participants suggested the possibility of an upward skew to the distribution of inflation outcomes, especially if there were appreciable further declines in the foreign exchange value of the dollar or in structural productivity growth; already some participants were hearing anecdotal reports from firms of an increased ability to pass cost increases through to product prices, perhaps because of increasing confidence in the outlook for the economic expansion.