In the staff forecast prepared for this meeting, the economy was seen as likely to expand at a pace a little above that of its longer-run potential over this year and next, while hiring was expected to firm some more, resulting in a further decrease in the unemployment rate. Household spending was projected to grow at a fairly solid rate, supported by higher employment and somewhat lower energy prices but damped somewhat by lessened stimulus from gains in wealth and the need for households to rebuild savings. After a temporary dip in the level of business investment this quarter related to the expiration of the partial-expensing tax provision, investment outlays were seen as likely to resume vigorous growth in response to steadily rising sales, strong corporate balance sheets, supportive financial conditions, and an ongoing need to replace or upgrade aging equipment and software. Real net exports were projected to be roughly stable for several quarters, held up by the lagged effect of the lower foreign exchange value of the dollar and some strengthening in foreign demand. Measures of total consumer price inflation were expected to decline over the forecast horizon as energy prices receded, while core inflation was seen as remaining stable in the staff forecast. Tendencies for core inflation to increase because of slightly higher trend unit labor costs and a narrowing margin of resource slack were expected to be offset by the waning contribution of elevated prices for energy and imported goods.

In their discussion of the economic outlook, the meeting participants regarded incoming data since the last meeting as supporting their expectations that, with the further removal of monetary accommodation, GDP would likely grow at a moderate pace consistent with a gradual reduction of remaining economic slack, and inflation would probably continue to be low. Domestic demand had stayed strong through the fourth quarter and should continue to be bolstered by favorable financial conditions. Recent data indicated low and stable rates of core consumer inflation and apparently well-anchored inflation expectations. Against this backdrop, the risks to the outlook for both output and inflation relative to the Committee's goals appeared to remain well-balanced.

In preparation for the Federal Reserve’s semi-annual report to the Congress on the economy and monetary policy, the members of the Board of Governors and the presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks submitted individual projections of the growth of GDP, the rate of unemployment, and core consumer price inflation for the years 2005 and 2006. As part of its continuing effort to improve its communications, the Committee had earlier decided to add one year to the forecast period so as to make the projections more useful to the public. The forecasts of the rate of expansion in real GDP were concentrated in the upper part of a 3-1/2 to 4 percent range for 2005; for 2006 the forecasts were in a slightly lower range of 3-1/4 to 3-3/4 percent, with a central tendency at 3-1/2 percent. These rates of growth were associated with a civilian unemployment rate in the range of 5 to 5-1/2 percent and a central tendency of 5-1/4 percent in the fourth quarter of 2005 and 5 to 5-1/4 percent in the fourth quarter of 2006. The rate of inflation, as measured by the core PCE price index, was expected to remain fairly stable, with forecasts concentrated in the lower portion of a 1-1/2 to 2 percent range for both this year and next.