At its meeting on December 14, 2004, the Federal Open Market Committee decided to increase its target for the federal funds rate 25 basis points to 2-1/4 percent. In its announcement of this decision, the Committee indicated that the upside and downside risks to the attainment of both sustainable growth and price stability were roughly equal. The Committee also noted that output appeared to be growing at a moderate pace and labor market conditions continued to improve gradually, while inflation and inflation expectations remained well-contained. As a result, the Committee again judged that policy accommodation could be removed at a pace that was likely to be measured, although the path of policy would depend importantly on evolving economic prospects.

The Committee’s decision at its December meeting to increase the federal funds rate had been fully anticipated in financial markets, and reaction to the attendant statement was muted. The release of the minutes of the December meeting on January 4, however, triggered a significant upward revision in the anticipated path of monetary policy: Investors apparently read them as expressing more widespread concern among Committee members about inflation pressures than had been the case previously. Market participants viewed the generally favorable incoming data on economic activity as consistent with their expectations of firmer policy. Interest rates on intermediate-term Treasury securities rose in response to the revision to policy expectations, but longer-term yields were little changed over the intermeeting period. As yields on inflation-indexed Treasury securities rose roughly in line with their nominal counterparts, longer-term inflation compensation remained about unchanged. Risk spreads on corporate bonds were stable at relatively low levels, consistent with favorable indicators of corporate credit quality. Broad stock indexes declined a bit over the intermeeting period. In foreign exchange markets, the dollar ended the period little changed on a trade-weighted basis, appreciating against the major European currencies but falling vis-à-vis other important trading partners.

M2 grew moderately in recent months, its expansion restrained by rising opportunity costs associated with monetary policy tightening. Because changes in interest rates on liquid deposits typically lag those in market interest rates, the growth of that component slowed in the second half of 2004. By contrast, growth of small time deposits, whose yields closely track market rates, picked up. Currency growth was about flat in December.