The information reviewed at this meeting suggested that the economy expanded at a solid pace in recent months. Consumer spending and the housing market continued to exhibit strength, and business fixed investment grew robustly in the fourth quarter. The pace of inventory accumulation picked up and industrial production accelerated. The labor market showed further signs of improvement. Core consumer prices rose moderately over the past few months, and measures of inflation expectations remained well-anchored.

Moderate increases in payroll employment during November and December pushed the average monthly advance in the quarter well above that of the third quarter. Employment gains were fairly widespread, with hiring in business services, health care, financial activities, and wholesale trade more than offsetting continued sluggishness in manufacturing and a seasonally adjusted decline in retail services during December. Surveys of employers’ hiring plans and job openings pointed to continued moderate gains in employment early this year. The average workweek during the fourth quarter was unchanged from the third quarter, and as a result aggregate hours decelerated despite the pickup in employment growth. The unemployment rate held steady at 5.4 percent in December.

Industrial activity accelerated noticeably during the fourth quarter. The pickup of industrial production in December owed largely to increased motor vehicle assemblies and a turnaround in the output of utilities associated with cold weather across the northeast. Production of high-tech goods slowed slightly in the fourth quarter. Available weekly physical product data suggested that manufacturing production would increase moderately in January. Capacity utilization continued to climb through the end of the year but remained below its longer-run average.

Real consumer spending expanded briskly in December and in the fourth quarter as a whole, with retail sales exhibiting widespread strength across categories. Expenditures on consumer services also continued to post solid increases. A surge in light vehicle sales in December pulled the average rate of sales during the fourth quarter slightly above the third-quarter pace. Real disposable personal income increased at a rapid rate at the end of the year--boosted in part by the special dividend payment by Microsoft; excluding this payment, real disposable personal income rose at a more moderate rate. Measures of consumer confidence remained favorable and consistent with sustained increases in spending.

Residential housing activity remained buoyant in the fourth quarter. A rebound in single-family housing starts in December from a disappointing November brought the fourthquarter pace about in line with that earlier in the year. Sales of new and existing homes slipped some late in the year but remained robust. Mortgage rates had changed little since August and continued to support demand. Construction activity in the multifamily sector weakened a bit in November and December, but indicators of underlying demand pointed to a rebound in starts in January.

Business fixed investment continued to be bolstered by favorable fundamentals, including sustained expansion of business output, the flush cash position of many firms, readily available credit, and a still-favorable cost of capital. Equipment and software spending grew at a solid rate in the fourth quarter, though not quite as briskly as in the third quarter owing to a deceleration in spending outside the high-tech sector. By contrast, investment in nonresidential structures had edged down in recent months, with expenditures only for drilling and mining operations showing some strength amid flat outlays for manufacturing facilities and a decline in spending on office buildings.

Nonfarm inventories increased a bit more in the fourth quarter than they had in the third quarter. The buildup of inventories was widespread across manufacturers, wholesalers, and retailers as well as across stages of production. Motor vehicle inventories were an exception, as motor vehicle manufacturers sought to reduce stocks of unsold light vehicles. The aggregate inventory-sales ratio outside of motor vehicles likely edged up in the fourth quarter but remained within the range that had prevailed since the middle of last year.

The most recent data suggested that the U.S. international trade deficit widened in the fourth quarter as a result of a broad-based decline in exports of goods and increase in imports of oil and consumer goods. The expansion in economic activity in the major foreign industrialized economies appeared to remain sluggish in the fourth quarter, but the growth of real GDP in Latin America and emerging Asia likely stepped up.

Core consumer prices decelerated over the past few months, while overall consumer prices were buffeted by movements in energy prices. The rate of increase in core prices in the twelve months ending in December was somewhat higher than the very low rate that prevailed during the year-earlier period; the overall index also accelerated, with about half of its advance accounted for by a sharp rise in energy prices. Measures of inflation expectations were little changed over the intermeeting period. With regard to labor costs, the employment cost index decelerated in the fourth quarter; the slowdown was attributable to wages, which gained only slightly, while benefit costs rose a bit faster than in the third quarter.