In their discussion of the economic situation and outlook, many FOMC participants noted that recent developments suggested that economic activity was likely to remain damped for several quarters. Although economic growth in the second quarter had apparently been boosted by fiscal stimulus, resilience in consumption spending even before tax rebates were distributed, and robust gains in exports, recent indicators pointed to a near-term deceleration in household spending and to softer export demand. Moreover, increasing concerns about financial institutions had contributed to a widening of some risk spreads and a further tightening of credit to households and businesses. Growth in overall economic activity was generally expected to be weak during the remainder of 2008 before recovering modestly next year, and nearly all meeting participants saw continuing downside risks to growth. Recent readings on inflation had been high, but growth in unit labor costs had remained subdued and commodity prices had declined of late. Accordingly, most participants anticipated that inflation would moderate in coming quarters. However, participants also expressed significant concerns about the upside risks to inflation, particularly the risk that longer-term inflation expectations could become unmoored.

Many participants referred to the adverse financial sector developments that had occurred over the intermeeting period. Heightened investor apprehension about the viability of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac had eased following legislative action, but pressures on these firms continued. Reflecting these strains, interest rates on residential mortgages had moved upward, a development that was seen as potentially exacerbating the contraction in the housing sector. Commercial banks had reported that terms and standards had been tightened on nearly all categories of loans. Declining mortgage asset values increased capital pressures on lenders exposed to real estate markets. While some financial institutions had strengthened their balance sheets with new capital issues, raising new capital had become increasingly difficult. Moreover, broad equity price indexes had declined and borrowing costs for nonfinancial firms had increased, including a recent rise in corporate bond yields across most risk categories. Many participants believed that these developments were likely to restrain aggregate demand and economic growth. Others, however, thought that the extent of such adverse effects was likely to be limited, noting that bank lending had continued to grow at a moderate pace and that consumption and business capital spending had increased in the second quarter despite the tightening of credit terms.

While consumer spending had been bolstered temporarily by the effects of the tax rebates, retail sales had weakened during late spring and auto sales had dropped sharply in both June and July. The unemployment rate jumped during the intermeeting period, and participants generally anticipated that payroll employment would decline further in coming months. For example, automotive parts suppliers in one District had reported plans for laying off workers, idling production, and closing several plants. Lower equity prices and the ongoing deterioration in house prices had reduced household wealth significantly, while real incomes had been diminished by earlier increases in the prices of food and energy. All of these factors--in conjunction with tightened access to auto loans, home equity lines of credit, and other consumer loans--were viewed as pointing towards weak growth in personal consumption expenditures during the second half of 2008.

The weaker outlook for consumer demand, along with tighter credit conditions for businesses, was expected to weigh on business spending going forward. Moreover, some signs of weakness in the commercial real estate sector were seen as suggesting a slower pace of investment in nonresidential structures over coming quarters, although that deceleration might be gradual due to the lags in the planning and execution of such projects. However, the elevated level of energy prices was boosting investment in the oil-producing industry.

Growth in exports had provided substantial impetus to overall demand in the second quarter. However, many participants observed that decelerating activity in some foreign economies would tend to dampen export gains going forward. Indeed, recent indications of a slowing global economy may have contributed to the marked declines in the prices of oil and some other commodities over the intermeeting period.

Participants pointed to potential interactions between financial stresses and the housing market contraction as the primary source of continuing downside risks to growth. Many participants noted that the financial system remained fragile, with some expressing continued concern about the possibility of an adverse feedback loop in which tighter conditions in the mortgage market would contribute to further declines in the housing sector and additional losses for lenders, leading to further tightening of lending terms and standards. In contrast, several other participants suggested that risks to the financial system had receded, partly as a result of the implementation by the Federal Reserve of special liquidity facilities, and that prevailing credit conditions were broadly consistent with the typical patterns observed during periods of weak growth or recession.

Headline inflation was generally expected to moderate in coming quarters, reflecting importantly an anticipated leveling-out of prices for energy and other commodities. Although measures of core inflation might well edge up later this year, given the pass-through to final goods prices of earlier increases in the prices of energy and other inputs, most participants anticipated that core inflation would edge back down during 2009. Some participants reported that firms were increasingly using various pricing strategies--such as escalation clauses or the imposition of fuel surcharges--to pass higher costs on to their customers, who were apparently becoming less resistant to such price adjustments. However, one participant mentioned the difficult pricing decisions of manufacturers who face a combination of elevated input costs along with weakening demand for their products. And a number of participants noted that the outlook for slack in resource utilization should tend to limit the extent of pass-through, contain the degree of inflation spillover to goods and services without high commodity content, and reinforce the anticipated moderation in inflation.

Participants expressed significant concerns about the upside risks to inflation, especially the risk that persistently high headline inflation could result in an unmooring of long-run inflation expectations. Some viewed the upside risks to inflation as having diminished modestly over the intermeeting period, mainly as a result of the drop in the prices of oil and some other commodities as well as the greater likelihood of persistent economic slack. However, others viewed these risks as having increased, particularly in light of continued elevated readings on headline inflation, the low level of the real federal funds rate, anecdotal information suggesting that firms were having more success in passing higher costs on to their customers, and some signs of an upward drift over recent months in investors' expectations and uncertainty regarding inflation over the longer run; moreover, the recent decline in energy prices might well be reversed in coming months. A number of participants worried about the possibility that core inflation might fail to moderate next year unless the stance of monetary policy was tightened sooner than currently anticipated by financial markets.