The information reviewed at the August meeting indicated that the economy expanded at a moderate pace in the second quarter, but recent financial market developments highlighted some of the stresses that the economy faced going forward. Both consumer and business spending recorded gains in the second quarter, and net exports contributed importantly to the rise in real gross domestic product (GDP). However, residential construction continued to fall sharply, the labor market weakened further, and industrial production declined. Core consumer price inflation remained relatively stable, while headline inflation was elevated as a result of large increases in food and energy prices.

Labor demand continued to contract in July. Private nonfarm payroll employment fell in July at a pace only a bit less than the average monthly rate during the first six months of the year. By industry, the pattern of job losses was roughly similar to those earlier in the year, although July's report showed a smaller decline in construction than earlier. Nonbusiness services, which include health and education, remained the only notable source of net additions to employment. Both the average workweek and aggregate hours edged down in July. The unemployment rate rose in July and was about 1 percentage point above its level of a year earlier, while the labor force participation rate was about unchanged.

Industrial production declined in the second quarter after having been flat over the previous two quarters. Motor vehicle assemblies tumbled in the second quarter because of soft demand and the effects of strikes. Production of high-tech equipment continued to expand at a moderate pace; however, the available indicators of high-tech manufacturing activity pointed to slower production in the current quarter. The output of other manufacturing industries contracted, on balance, in the second quarter, and indicators of near-term production generally pointed to further declines, including a sizable retrenchment in the scheduled production of motor vehicles. The factory utilization rate held steady in June at a rate below its long-run average but was still well above its low rate from 2001 through 2002.

Real personal consumption expenditures (PCE) rose modestly in the second quarter after posting weak gains in the previous two quarters. However, real outlays for goods other than motor vehicles dropped noticeably in June after three months of robust gains. Sales of motor vehicles, which had begun to weaken earlier in the year, fell sharply in June and again in July. Tax rebates provided a notable, albeit temporary boost to income since the end of April, but real disposable income excluding rebates was essentially flat in the second quarter. The ratio of wealth to income likely declined again in the second quarter, as equity prices declined, on balance, and house prices continued to fall. Consumer sentiment rose a bit in July but remained at a depressed level.

Residential construction activity continued to descend rapidly but at a somewhat slower pace than during the second half of last year. Single-family housing starts fell further in June, leaving the pace of construction in this sector well below its December reading. Starts of multifamily homes jumped in June to a level well above the range of readings seen over the past two years. However, available information suggested that this increase could be traced to more-stringent building codes that took effect in New York City on July 1, which apparently led developers to move up some planned apartment projects. Even though cuts in new construction continued to trim the level of new home inventories, the months' supply of new homes remained quite high because of the ongoing reductions in the demand for new houses. Sales of existing single-family homes fell in June. Tight conditions in the mortgage credit markets continued to restrain housing demand, particularly for borrowers seeking nonconforming mortgages. House prices remained on a downward trajectory.

In the business sector, real spending on equipment and software declined in the second quarter as outlays on transportation equipment dropped sharply. Spending on computers and software rose at a moderate rate in the second quarter, while outlays on other equipment improved a bit last quarter after having declined in the preceding two quarters. Data through June continued to show a robust increase in nonresidential construction activity. However, vacancy rates for commercial properties ticked up in the first quarter, and the architectural billings index registered a string of weak readings from February to June.

Real nonfarm inventories excluding motor vehicles fell sharply in the second quarter. The ratio of book-value inventories to sales (excluding motor vehicles) ticked down again in May.

The U.S. international trade deficit narrowed in May, as a large increase in exports of goods and services more than offset a moderate increase in imports. Most major categories of non-oil imports rose in May; imports of consumer goods increased rapidly. In contrast, the value of petroleum imports fell back despite higher prices, and imports of automotive products also fell. The increase in exports was supported by strong exports of industrial supplies, particularly petroleum products, and services.

Across the advanced foreign economies, information received since the last meeting pointed to subdued growth in the second quarter and increasing inflation pressures. Weak second-quarter data on industrial production and sentiment in the euro area as well as on consumer expenditures and exports in Japan suggested that the first-quarter strength in output growth was not sustained. Conditions worsened considerably in the United Kingdom, with a deepening slump in the housing sector. In all the major advanced foreign economies, rising food and fuel prices continued to drive overall inflation to recent highs, but core measures of inflation generally rose only modestly. Recent indicators for emerging market economies pointed to some slowing of growth in the second quarter. Real GDP growth in China moderated but remained strong. Incoming data suggested further slowing elsewhere in emerging Asia, and second-quarter activity appeared to have remained sluggish in Mexico. Headline inflation rose further in much of the developing world, largely owing to higher food and energy prices, and several countries continued to face upward pressure on core inflation as well.

Headline consumer price inflation in the United States stepped up in recent months, largely as a result of sizable increases in food and energy prices. Excluding these categories, core consumer price inflation was elevated in June but, on balance, was running this year at about the same rate as last year. Some survey-based measures of year-ahead inflation expectations moved up sharply in recent months; longer-term inflation expectations were little changed recently but remained above their levels at the end of 2007. Excluding food and energy, sharp increases in the prices of products and services at earlier stages of processing continued to put upward pressures on business costs and consumer prices. Unit labor costs apparently continued to increase at a restrained pace during the second quarter, reflecting only moderate gains in worker compensation and relatively strong productivity performance, with little sign of higher overall inflation passing through to higher worker compensation.

At its June 24-25 meeting, the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) kept its target for the federal funds rate at 2 percent. The Committee's statement noted that recent information indicated that overall economic activity continued to expand, partly because of some firming in household spending. However, labor markets softened further and financial markets remained under considerable stress. Tight credit conditions, the ongoing housing contraction, and the rise in energy prices were likely to weigh on economic growth over the next few quarters. The Committee expected inflation to moderate later this year and next. However, in light of the continued increases in the prices of energy and some other commodities and the elevated state of some indicators of inflation expectations, uncertainty about the inflation outlook remained high. The Committee stated that the substantial easing of monetary policy to date, combined with ongoing measures to foster market liquidity, should help promote moderate growth over time. Although downside risks to growth remained, they appeared to have diminished somewhat, and the upside risks to inflation and inflation expectations increased. The Committee indicated that it would continue to monitor economic and financial developments and would act as needed to promote sustainable economic growth and price stability.