At its meeting on May 7, 2002, the Committee adopted a directive that called for maintaining conditions in reserve markets consistent with keeping the intended level of the federal funds rate at 1-3/4 percent, and it also retained a neutral balance of risks statement. The Committee's press statement, with its language indicating that the Committee remained uncertain about the extent and timing of the strengthening of final demand, was viewed by market participants as expressing less confidence in the strength of the recovery than had been expected, and yields on Treasury securities declined slightly in response. Subsequently, investors became more risk averse in reaction to a mixture of economic data releases, growing geopolitical tensions, further warnings about terrorism, and additional revelations regarding questionable corporate accounting practices. Yields on Treasury securities dropped somewhat on net over the period, rates on lower-quality bonds rose, and equity prices fell sharply further. The federal funds rate remained close to the Committee's target level of 1-3/4 percent during the intermeeting period.

In foreign exchange markets, the trade-weighted value of the dollar in terms of the major foreign currencies dropped somewhat over the intermeeting period. The dollar's decline against the major foreign currencies occurred as questions about the strength of U.S. economic recovery and corporate earnings and the related lowering of expectations for near-term monetary tightening led to concerns that net foreign capital inflows might not be consistent with a stable exchange value for the dollar in the context of growing U.S. net international indebtedness. By contrast, the dollar rose slightly on average in terms of an index of the currencies of other important trading partners, notably the currencies of several Latin American countries that were experiencing political and economic problems.

Growth of the broad monetary aggregates picked up in May owing to the unwinding of distortions from final tax payments and, apparently, to falling equity prices. The heightened volatility of equity markets may have enhanced the attractiveness of safe and liquid M2 assets, including liquid deposits and retail money market funds.