The information reviewed at this meeting indicated that economic activity continued to expand in recent months, though at a slower pace than earlier in the year. Consumer purchases, residential housing outlays, and government spending recorded smaller gains, but business investment in durable equipment and software appeared to be leveling out after a long decline. Industrial production continued to pick up. Employment had risen a little, but not enough to lower the unemployment rate, and labor productivity seemed to be trending sharply upward. The surge in energy prices this year had boosted headline inflation, but core measures of inflation had trended lower.

Private nonfarm payroll employment edged up in April and May after a slowdown in the first quarter in the pace of layoffs and job separations. Hiring was relatively brisk in the services sector in the April-May period, with most of the advances occurring in the temporary-help industry. Manufacturing payrolls recorded small declines in both months, while the number of jobs in construction steadied in May after a large drop in April. The civilian unemployment rate moved down somewhat, to 5.8 percent in May, but the average rate for the April-May period remained above the level in the two previous quarters.

Industrial production rose for a fifth straight month in May. In manufacturing, output increases in April and May continued to be spread widely across market groups and industries. The high-tech sector, notably computers and semiconductors, and the motor vehicles and parts sector remained strong, while the telecommunications and aircraft industries weakened further. Capacity utilization in manufacturing in May was a little above its depressed level at year-end, but substantially below its long-run average.

Growth of consumer spending slowed appreciably in April and May from the brisk pace of the first quarter. Retail sales slumped in May after a sizable rise in April, largely reflecting weaker spending at apparel stores and general merchandise outlets and an apparent pause in purchases of light motor vehicles after an April surge. Real outlays on services in April (latest data) were unchanged.

Residential housing activity remained elevated during April and May. Housing starts jumped in May after a small decline in April. The strength in starts over the two months evidently reflected the persistence of very positive homebuying attitudes arising at least in part from low mortgage rates. In May, sales of new single-family homes established a new record high, and sales of existing single-family homes were only slightly below the peak reached in the first quarter.

The decline in business outlays for durable equipment and software had moderated further in the first quarter, and the available information suggested that spending on equipment and software was turning upward in the second quarter. Shipments of nondefense capital goods other than aircraft rose in April and May; shipments of computers and peripherals remained strong, shipments of communications equipment were still weak, and shipments of other durable goods continued to advance. In the nonresidential construction sector, outlays for office and industrial structures, lodging facilities, and public utilities declined substantially. In addition, expenditures for drilling and mining continued to drop. By contrast, construction of retail space, warehouses, and institutional structures picked up.

Liquidation of manufacturing and trade inventories continued in April at about the pace of the first quarter, and the aggregate inventory-sales ratio declined further. In manufacturing, the rate of liquidation slowed substantially, and the aggregate stock-shipments ratio for the sector was at a very low level. Wholesalers ran down their inventories in April at a somewhat faster rate than in the first quarter; the sector's inventory-sales ratio fell sharply further to a relatively low level. Retailers boosted their stocks slightly in April, with all of the increase occurring at automotive dealers. The sector's aggregate inventory-sales ratio edged up in April but remained relatively low.

The U.S. trade deficit in goods and services widened somewhat in April from both the March and the first-quarter levels, as the value of imports increased significantly more than that of exports. The rise in imports from March to April reflected higher prices for imported oil along with greater demand for a wide range of goods. The monthly step-up in exports was also broadly spread across categories of goods. With regard to economic activity abroad, the available information indicated that, on balance, foreign economic output had rebounded in the first half of the year, though the pace of recovery was uneven across regions and countries. Australia, Canada, and emerging Asia had experienced strong growth; the euro area also was expanding, but at a slower rate; and Japan appeared to have experienced a limited upturn in its economy. In South America, Brazil's economy was expanding but its financial markets had come under considerable stress, and elsewhere on the continent economic activity was generally weak, particularly in Argentina and Venezuela.

Both the consumer price index and the personal consumption expenditure chain-linked index indicated that consumer price inflation was moderate during the April-May period. Moreover, both measures showed that core price inflation during the first five months of the year had been a bit lower than in 2001. At the producer level, prices for core finished goods changed little over April and May and decelerated on a year-over-year basis. Labor costs, as measured by the average hourly earnings of production or nonsupervisory workers, also decelerated.