In their discussion of the economic situation and outlook, meeting participants agreed that the incoming data and information received from business contacts suggested that economic activity had picked up following its severe downturn; most thought an economic recovery was under way. Many participants noted that since August, they had revised up their projections for the second half of 2009 and for subsequent years. A number of factors were expected to support growth over the next few quarters: Activity in the housing sector was evidently rising, and house prices had apparently stabilized or even increased; consumer spending seemed to be in the process of leveling out; reports from business contacts and regional surveys were consistent with firms making progress in bringing inventories into better alignment with sales and with production stabilizing or beginning to rise in many sectors; the outlook for growth abroad had also improved, auguring well for U.S. exports; and financial market conditions had continued to improve over the past several months. Despite these positive factors, many participants noted that the economic recovery was likely to be quite restrained. Credit from banks remained difficult to obtain and costly for many borrowers; these conditions were expected to improve only gradually. In light of recent experience, consumers were likely to be cautious in spending, and business contacts indicated that their firms would also be cautious in hiring and investing even as demand for their products picked up. Some of the recent gains in activity probably reflected government policy support, and participants expressed considerable uncertainty about the likely strength of the upturn once those supports were withdrawn or their effects waned. Overall, the economy was projected to expand over the remainder of 2009 and during 2010, but at a pace that was unlikely to reduce the unemployment rate appreciably. Subsequently, as the housing market picked up further and financial conditions improved, economic growth was expected to strengthen, leading to more-substantial increases in resource utilization over time.

Nonetheless, most participants anticipated that slack in both labor and product markets would be substantial over the next few years, leading to subdued and potentially declining wage and price inflation. Some participants were skeptical of the usefulness of measures of resource utilization in gauging inflation pressures, partly because of the difficulty of measuring slack, especially in real time. Also, those participants noted that the degree to which slack reduces inflation depends on the stability of longer-term inflation expectations, which in turn depends on expectations for monetary policy. In any case, all participants recognized that inflation expectations are a key determinant of inflation, and that various measures of inflation expectations, although imperfect, needed to be carefully monitored in the current environment. Participants discussed the extent to which the size of the Federal Reserve's balance sheet would affect inflation expectations going forward. To keep inflation expectations well anchored, all agreed on the importance of the Federal Reserve continuing to communicate that it has the tools and willingness to begin withdrawing monetary policy accommodation at the appropriate time and pace to prevent any persistent increase in inflation. Overall, many participants viewed the risks to their inflation outlook over the next few quarters as being roughly balanced. A few continued to see some risk of substantial further disinflation, but that risk had eased somewhat further over the intermeeting period. Over a longer horizon, a few felt the risks were tilted to the upside.

Developments in financial markets were again regarded as broadly positive; participants saw the cumulative improvement in market functioning and pricing since the spring as substantial. Over the intermeeting period, the strengthening in the economic outlook led to an increase in investors' appetite for riskier assets. Markets for corporate debt continued to improve, private credit spreads narrowed further, and equity prices rose. Given the improved economic prospects, the decline in longer-term Treasury yields and the apparent marking down of the implied path for the policy interest rate were seen as somewhat puzzling but supportive of recovery. Some participants saw the decline in yields on Treasury securities and other instruments as an indication that the expansion of excess reserve balances was putting downward pressure on market rates; some others viewed the configuration of rate movements as consistent with reduced concerns about inflation and with lower term premiums in a more settled economic environment. In any event, the ongoing improvement in broader financial and economic conditions seemed to some participants to reflect the onset of a positive feedback loop in which better financial conditions contribute to stronger growth in output and employment, which in turn bolsters expected returns and strengthens financial firms, leading to a further easing in financial conditions. Others noted, however, that many financial markets and institutions were still strained and that downside financial risks remained. In particular, because the improvement in financial markets was due, in part, to support from various government programs, market functioning might deteriorate as those programs wind down. Moreover, credit remained quite tight for many businesses and households dependent on banks, and many regional and small banks were vulnerable to the deteriorating performance of commercial real estate loans. Participants noted that all categories of bank lending continued to decline.

Participants emphasized that labor market conditions remained weak. Although recent data indicated that the pace at which employment was declining had slowed, job losses remained sizable and the unemployment rate was high. The unusually large fraction of those who were working part time for economic reasons, the unusually low level of the average workweek, and indications from business contacts that firms would be slow to hire additional staff as sales and production turn up all pointed to a period of modest job gains, and thus only a slow decline in the unemployment rate as the economic recovery proceeds. Significant cost cutting by firms was thought to have led to a sizable increase in productivity growth in the first half of the year; sustained outsized gains in productivity could further damp hiring. Finally, high levels of long-term unemployment and permanent separations could lead to losses of skills and greater needs for labor reallocation that could slow employment growth.

Consumer spending had picked up more than expected over the intermeeting period, but participants saw that increase as partly reflecting special factors like the cash-for-clunkers program. Recent increases in house prices and equity prices were positives, but participants generally expected no more than moderate growth in consumer spending over the near term. Households still faced considerable headwinds, including tight credit, high levels of debt, uncertain job prospects, and wealth levels that remained relatively low despite the recent rise in equity prices and stabilization in house prices. In that environment, households' saving behavior remained an important source of uncertainty in the outlook. The household saving rate had risen considerably in recent quarters, and the most likely outcome was for the saving rate to remain near its higher level; however, some participants noted that there was some chance that the sharp drop in household net worth over the past few years, reduced access to credit, and high household debt burdens could lead households to save a substantially larger fraction of their incomes going forward.

Firms appeared to be reducing inventories and fixed investment at a slower pace than earlier in the year and had made substantial progress in reducing stocks toward desired levels. With inventories low, firms were beginning to raise production to meet at least a portion of new demand; this adjustment was likely to make an important contribution to economic recovery in the second half of this year. Recent data on new orders and shipments pointed to an earlier bottoming out in equipment and investment spending than previously anticipated. Some participants reported that while business contacts had expressed relief that the most severe economic outcomes had been avoided, they remained cautious about the recovery. This caution, together with low utilization rates and substantial excess capacity, could hold back the rate of increase of new capital spending.

In the residential real estate sector, home sales and construction had increased from very low levels, and house prices appeared to be stabilizing. Participants welcomed the cumulating evidence that the housing sector was beginning to recover, and many participants had marked up their forecasts for housing activity. However, some viewed the improvement as quite tentative, pointing to the pending termination of the temporary tax credit for first-time homebuyers and the winding down of the Federal Reserve's agency MBS purchase program as potential risks to the outlook for the sector. Also, some participants questioned whether the recent stabilization in house prices would be sustained as likely further increases in foreclosures would probably put downward pressure on prices. Still, a better outlook for house prices was an important input to the improved economic outlook; not only would household wealth benefit from a turnaround in such prices, but the exposure of lenders to real estate losses would be diminished. In contrast to developments in the residential sector, commercial real estate activity continued to fall markedly in most districts, reflecting deteriorating fundamentals, including declining occupancy and rental rates and very tight credit conditions.

Participants marked up their outlook for foreign economies, mainly reflecting better-than-expected incoming data from a range of countries. The pickup in foreign economic activity, especially in Asia, had buoyed U.S. export growth, and several participants noted that higher growth abroad would support growth in U.S. exports going forward.