The Manager of the System Open Market Account reported on recent developments in domestic and foreign financial markets. The Manager also reported on System open market operations in Treasury securities, agency debt, and agency mortgage-backed securities (MBS) since the Committee's August 11-12 meeting. By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified those transactions. There were no open market operations in foreign currencies for the System's account during the intermeeting period. Since the Committee met in August, the Federal Reserve's total assets had risen about $125 billion, on balance, to approximately $2.1 trillion, as the System's purchases of securities exceeded a further decline in usage of the System's credit and liquidity facilities.

The staff briefed the Committee on the current status of the asset purchase programs. Participants noted that the primary influence of the programs is likely through the cumulative effect that they generate on the publicly available stocks of securities. However, they also observed that the rate of new purchases could have an effect on asset prices, especially of MBS. Given this possibility, participants remarked that a gradual reduction in the pace at which the Federal Reserve buys agency debt and agency MBS could help promote a smooth transition in markets as the announced asset purchases are completed. Participants observed that such a strategy would be similar to the approach adopted in August for the purchases of Treasury securities and generally viewed it as a useful step to mitigate the risk of a sharp change in yields as purchases end. Participants expressed a range of views about the rate at which asset purchases should be slowed. Some suggested tapering quickly and completing the purchases by year-end, while a few preferred slowing the rate of purchases over a longer period in order to maintain flexibility regarding the pace and the cumulative amount purchased and thus potentially better calibrate the programs to evolving economic and financial market conditions. Most participants supported extending purchases of agency debt and agency MBS through the first quarter of 2010.

The staff also briefed the Committee on the likely implications of very high reserve balances for bank balance sheet management and for the economy. The staff's assessment, based in part on consultations with market participants, was that many banks were currently comfortable holding high levels of reserves as a means of managing liquidity risks, and these balances or further increases along the lines implied by the announced programs were not likely to crowd out other lending through pressures on capital positions. As the economy improves, however, banks could seek to lower their levels of reserve balances by purchasing securities, thereby putting downward pressure on market interest rates, or by easing their credit standards and terms in order to expand lending. Such effects, if significant, would provide further impetus to economic growth. The staff analysis indicated that these effects would likely emerge only gradually and that their magnitude could be quite limited. However, some participants thought that declining demand for reserves might already be putting downward pressure on yields. Participants expressed a range of views about the likely stimulative effect of a further expansion of reserve balances on economic activity, as well as the potential impact of elevated reserves on inflation expectations. Some meeting participants noted that the announced decrease in the balance in the Treasury's Supplementary Financing Account (SFA) would increase reserves in the banking system unless it were offset by Federal Reserve actions or by a further reduction in borrowing from the Federal Reserve's various credit and liquidity facilities, and that these increases could be expansionary. Others noted that the decrease in the SFA could well be temporary and, in any event, that the macroeconomic effects of the increase in reserves would probably be limited in the current environment.

The staff presented an update on the continuing development of several tools that could help support a smooth withdrawal of policy accommodation at the appropriate time. These measures included executing reverse repurchase agreements on a large scale, potentially with counterparties other than the primary dealers; implementing a term deposit facility, available to depository institutions, to reduce the supply of reserve balances; and taking steps to tighten the link between the interest rate paid on reserve balances held at the Federal Reserve Banks and the federal funds rate. Participants expressed confidence that these tools, along with the payment of interest on reserves and possible sales of assets from the System's portfolio, would allow them to remove policy accommodation at the appropriate time and pace. Completing development of these tools would remain a top priority of the Federal Reserve.

The staff presented proposed schedules for operations under the Term Auction Facility (TAF) and Term Securities Lending Facility (TSLF) through January 2010. As conditions in short-term funding markets had continued to improve, usage of these facilities had diminished. The proposed schedules were consistent with not only the Federal Reserve's previously announced intention to gradually scale back these facilities in response to continued improvements in financial market conditions, but also with a desire to assure market participants that the Federal Reserve will provide sufficient liquidity over year-end. There was general agreement that the Federal Reserve should assess over the next several months whether to maintain a TAF on a permanent basis.

Secretary's note: On September 24, 2009, the Federal Reserve announced schedules for operations under the TAF and the TSLF through January 2010 and indicated that it would seek public comment on a proposal for a permanent TAF.