The decisions by the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) at the August meeting to leave the target range for the federal funds rate unchanged and to maintain the maximum sizes of its large-scale asset purchase programs, along with the accompanying statement, were broadly in line with market expectations. The announcement in the statement of the decision to slow the pace of Treasury securities purchases so that the full amount of $300 billion would be completed by the end of October reduced uncertainty about the timing of the end of this program and the ultimate amount of purchases. After the release of the statement, the expected path for the federal funds rate implied by money market futures prices declined modestly. Subsequently, the expected policy path shifted down further, on net, as investors apparently interpreted weak labor market conditions and generally quiescent inflation as consistent with an outlook that would lead the FOMC to maintain low policy rates over the medium term. In addition, investors' uncertainty about the future policy rate path appeared to diminish, which may have also contributed to the lowering of the path implied by futures prices by reducing term premiums. Yields on nominal Treasury securities also decreased since the Committee met in August. A decline in implied volatility on longer-term Treasury yields suggested that some of the drop in yields was due to reduced risk premiums. Inflation compensation based on five-year Treasury inflation-protected securities (TIPS) increased a little, on balance, over the intermeeting period, while five-year inflation compensation five years ahead declined modestly; the decrease in forward inflation compensation partially reversed increases in prior intermeeting periods. Liquidity in the TIPS market reportedly continued to be poor, complicating inferences about investors' expectations of future inflation.

Conditions in short-term funding markets showed modest further improvement over the intermeeting period. Spreads between London interbank offered rates (Libor) and overnight index swaps (OIS) at the one- and three-month maturities returned to near the levels that prevailed before the onset of the financial crisis in August 2007. Longer-term Libor-OIS spreads also narrowed, but they remained high by historical standards. Reports continued to suggest that lending institutions were unusually selective about their counterparties in funding markets. Spreads on A2/P2-rated commercial paper and AA-rated asset-backed commercial paper were little changed, on net, remaining at the low end of their ranges over the past two years. Indicators of Treasury market functioning showed no material change, and functioning continued to be somewhat impaired. Bid-asked spreads held roughly steady, and trading volumes remained low. The on-the-run liquidity premium for the 10-year Treasury note was little changed at an elevated level, although it was well below its peak last fall; the premiums on two- and five-year Treasury securities stayed low.

Amid lower interest rates as well as further indications that the contraction in economic activity may have ended, broad stock price indexes rose, on net, over the intermeeting period. The spread between an estimate of the expected real equity return over the next 10 years for S&P 500 firms and an estimate of the real 10-year Treasury yield--a rough gauge of the equity risk premium--remained high by historical standards. After having dropped significantly in prior months, option-implied volatility on the S&P 500 index declined modestly, on balance, over the intermeeting period, but was still at a level comparable with that of previous recessions. Yields on corporate bonds fell a bit more than those on Treasury securities of similar duration. Indicators suggested that liquidity in the secondary market for corporate bonds increased a bit further. Conditions in the secondary market for leveraged syndicated loans continued to improve slowly, as secondary-market prices rose slightly and bid-asked spreads narrowed.

Changes in investor sentiment toward claims on financial firms were mixed over the intermeeting period. Equity prices for larger banks increased, but stock prices for regional and smaller banks were little changed. Market participants reportedly took note of the increased number of failures at regional and smaller banks and remained concerned about the credit quality of such banks' loan portfolios and their ability to raise capital. Credit default swap spreads for banking institutions changed little, on net, over the intermeeting period. A number of financial institutions issued debt that was not guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.

The level of debt of the private domestic nonfinancial sector declined again in the second quarter, as both household and nonfinancial business debt fell. Consumer credit posted its sixth consecutive monthly decline in July; both revolving and nonrevolving credit showed sizable drops. While issuance of consumer credit asset-backed securities decreased in August, a large volume of securities eligible for the Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility was issued in early September. Gross bond issuance by nonfinancial corporations rose in August following a lull in July; the rebound was particularly robust for speculative-grade firms. However, commercial paper outstanding was unchanged and bank loans fell again; as a result, borrowing by the nonfinancial business sector declined, on net, again in August. In contrast, the federal government continued to issue debt at a rapid pace, and gross issuance of state and local government debt was robust, supported in part by issuance of Build America Bonds authorized under the fiscal stimulus program.

Commercial bank credit contracted further in August; all major loan categories declined. Commercial and industrial (C&I) lending again decreased steeply amid reported broad-based paydowns of outstanding loans. At the same time, the latest Survey of Terms of Business Lending showed that C&I loan spreads over comparable-maturity market instruments rose noticeably in recent months. The contraction of commercial real estate loans held by banks also intensified in August. Even though originations of residential mortgages apparently increased during August, banks sold an unusually large volume of loans to the government-sponsored enterprises; consequently, banks' balance sheet holdings of residential mortgages decreased markedly.

After declining in July, M2 contracted more quickly in August. The reduced demand for M2 assets likely reflected low interest rates on retail deposits and money market mutual fund shares, as well as a continued reallocation of wealth toward riskier assets. Small time deposits and retail money market mutual funds fell more sharply in August than earlier in the year. Liquid deposits increased in August, but at a slower rate than in July. Currency expanded less rapidly in July and August than in the first half of the year, as demand from abroad evidently was restrained.

Global financial markets showed some further signs of stabilization over the intermeeting period. Stock indexes in Europe rose solidly, apparently reflecting an improved economic outlook, but the Japanese stock market declined modestly. In emerging markets, credit default swap spreads on sovereign debt declined slightly, and equity prices in most countries rose moderately; however, stock prices fell notably in China, partly driven by reports that authorities were taking actions to moderate loan growth. Despite fairly positive economic indicators, sovereign yields fell in major industrial economies, reportedly in part because of the reiteration by major central banks of their intention to keep policy interest rates low. On a trade-weighted basis, the dollar depreciated against major foreign currencies, notably against the euro and Japanese yen; it was little changed, on average, against the currencies of the other major trading partners of the United States.

The European Central Bank, the Bank of England, the Bank of Canada, and the Bank of Japan kept their respective policy rates constant over the intermeeting period. On the first day of the FOMC meeting, the Bank of Canada announced the expiration of two temporary liquidity facilities at the end of October 2009.