The information available at the time of the April 30–May 1 meeting indicated that growth in U.S. real gross domestic product (GDP) stepped down in the first quarter of 2024 from the robust pace seen over the second half of 2023. Labor market conditions remained strong. Consumer price inflation—as measured by the 12‑month change in the price index for personal consumption expenditures (PCE)—slowed significantly over the past year but had moved up slightly in recent months and remained above 2 percent.

Labor demand and supply continued to move into better balance, though the speed of this realignment appeared to have slowed in recent months. Total nonfarm payroll employment increased at a faster average monthly pace in the first quarter of 2024 than in the fourth quarter of 2023. The unemployment rate ticked down to 3.8 percent in March, while the labor force participation rate and the employment-to-population ratio both moved up 0.2 percentage point. The unemployment rate for African Americans increased, and the rate for Hispanics moved down; both rates were higher than those for Asians and for Whites. The 12-month changes in the employment cost index (ECI) and average hourly earnings for all employees both declined in March relative to a year earlier, but the 3‑month change in the ECI stepped up noticeably from the average pace that prevailed over the second half of 2023.

Regarding consumer price inflation, total PCE prices increased 2.7 percent over the 12 months ending in March, while core PCE price inflation—which excludes changes in energy prices and many consumer food prices—was 2.8 percent over the same period. Both inflation measures were considerably lower than their year-earlier levels but had surprised to the upside. Al­though some measures of short-term inflation expectations had moved up, longer-term expectations were little changed and stood at levels consistent with those that prevailed before the pandemic.

According to the advance estimate, real GDP rose modestly in the first quarter. However, private domestic final purchases (PDFP)—which comprises PCE and private fixed investment and which often provides a better signal than GDP of underlying economic momentum—posted an increase that was similar to the solid gains seen over the second half of 2023.

Real exports of goods and services grew at a tepid pace overall in the first quarter, with gains in exports of foods, consumer goods, and capital goods being mostly offset by declines in exports of industrial supplies. By contrast, real imports rose at a brisk pace, boosted in part by a large increase in imports of capital goods. All told, net exports made a significant negative contribution to U.S. GDP growth in the first quarter.

Foreign GDP growth is estimated to have picked up in the first quarter from its subdued pace in the previous quarter. In Europe, economic activity resumed expanding following modest contractions in several economies amid monetary policy restraint and the repercussions of the 2022 energy shock. Growth stepped up in China, led by strong exports, but property-sector indicators remained weak. Elsewhere in emerging Asia, exports rebounded further from last year's lows, lifted by robust global demand for high-tech goods.

Headline inflation eased modestly further in the advanced foreign economies (AFEs) in the first quarter, but inched up in the emerging market economies in part because of food price pressure caused by adverse weather in some countries. Most major AFE central banks kept their policy rates unchanged over the intermeeting period, and some reiterated that policy rate cuts could be appropriate at coming meetings.