Over the intermeeting period, the market-implied path for the federal funds rate through 2024 increased markedly, and federal funds futures rates suggested that market participants were placing lower odds on significant policy easing in 2024 than they did just before the March FOMC meeting. Consistent with the rise in the implied policy path, nominal Treasury yields at all maturities also rose substantially as investors appeared to reassess the persistence of inflation and the implications for monetary policy. Market-based measures of interest rate uncertainty remained elevated by historical standards.

Broad stock price indexes declined moderately, on net, over the intermeeting period. Yield spreads on investment-grade corporate bonds were about unchanged, and those on speculative-grade corporate bonds increased moderately. The one-month option-implied volatility on the S&P 500 increased significantly over the period, apparently reflecting rising geopolitical tensions, but remained at moderate levels by historical standards.

Over the intermeeting period, incoming foreign economic data and central bank communications were largely consistent with market participants' expectations that most AFE central banks will lower policy rates at coming meetings. Nonetheless, AFE sovereign bond yields rose, primarily reflecting spillovers from higher U.S. yields. Wider U.S.–AFE yield differentials and, to a lesser extent, heightened geopolitical tensions in the Middle East contributed to a moderate increase in the broad dollar index. Though geopolitical tensions weighed on risk sentiment at times, prices of foreign risky assets were little changed on balance.

Conditions in U.S. short-term funding markets remained stable over the intermeeting period, with typical dynamics observed surrounding quarter-end. Usage of the ON RRP facility leveled off during the first few weeks of the period, primarily reflecting MMFs slowing their re-allocation into Treasury bills.

In domestic credit markets, borrowing costs generally rose somewhat over the intermeeting period from already elevated levels. Rates on 30-year conforming residential mortgages increased and remained near recent high levels. In contrast, interest rates on new credit card offers edged down in February. Interest rates on small business loans increased in March and remained at elevated levels. Meanwhile, price terms for commercial and industrial (C&I) loans were little changed, on net, in the first quarter of 2024 after several quarters of tightening. Yields rose on a broad array of fixed-income securities, including commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS), investment- and speculative-grade corporate bonds, and residential mortgage-backed securities.

Financing through capital markets and nonbank lenders was readily accessible for public corporations and large and middle-market private corporations, and credit availability for leveraged loan borrowers appeared to improve further over the intermeeting period. For small firms, the volume of loan originations ticked up in February despite the tightening of credit standards. Meanwhile, C&I loan balances declined in the first quarter, in line with the cumulative tightening in standards over the past two years. In the April Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices (SLOOS), large banks kept standards and most lending terms for C&I loans unchanged, on net, while smaller banks continued to tighten standards and terms on net.

Banks reported tightening standards further in the April SLOOS for all loan categories of commercial real estate (CRE) loans. The growth of bank CRE loan balances slowed notably over the past year, reflecting the tightening of credit standards over this period, though growth of CRE loan balances picked up modestly in the first quarter.

Credit remained available for most consumers, despite some signs of recent tightening. For residential real estate borrowers, conforming and government-backed loans remained generally available. Credit card balances continued to grow at a robust pace, though a significant net share of SLOOS respondents indicated that lending standards for credit cards tightened further in the first quarter. Growth in auto lending moderated in January and February, and a modest net share of banks reported in the SLOOS that they tightened lending standards on auto loans in the first quarter.

Al­though credit quality for household loans remained solid, on balance, delinquency rates for credit cards and auto loans in the fourth quarter remained notably above their levels just before the pandemic. For residential mortgages, delinquency rates across loan types were largely unchanged in February. The credit quality of nonfinancial firms borrowing in the corporate bond and leveraged loan markets remained stable overall. The average delinquency rate for loans in CMBS pools ticked down in March but remained at elevated levels. Meanwhile, the share of nonperforming CRE loans at banks—defined as loans past due 90 days or in nonaccrual status—rose further through March, especially for loans secured by office buildings.

The staff provided an update on its assessment of the stability of the U.S. financial system. On balance, the staff continued to characterize the system's financial vulnerabilities as notable but raised the assessment of vulnerabilities in asset valuations to elevated, as valuations across a range of markets appeared high relative to risk-adjusted cash flows. House prices remained elevated relative to fundamentals such as rents and Treasury yields, though the fraction of mortgage borrowers with small equity positions remained low. CRE prices continued to decline, especially in the multifamily and office sectors, and vacancy rates in these sectors remained elevated. Vulnerabilities associated with business and household debt were characterized as moderate. Nonfinancial business leverage was high, but the ability of firms to service their debt remained solid, partly due to robust earnings.

Leverage in the financial sector was characterized as notable. Regulatory capital ratios in the banking sector remained high. However, the fair value of bank assets was estimated to have fallen further in the first quarter, reflecting the substantial duration risk on bank balance sheets. For the nonbank sector, the prevalence of the basis trade by hedge funds appeared to have declined from its peak but remained elevated by historical standards.

Funding risks were also characterized as notable. Assets in prime MMFs and other cash management vehicles continued to grow steadily. The staff assessed that the financial stability risks associated with the fast-growing private credit sector were limited so far because of the modest leverage used by private debt funds and business development companies and the limited maturity mismatch present in their funding vehicles. However, the staff also noted the growing connections between private credit and the banking sector, the growth of some forms of private credit, and the fact that the private credit market has yet to experience a severe credit downturn.