With some stronger-than-expected incoming data on economic activity and the recent tightening in financial conditions, particularly the decline in equity prices, the U.S. economic forecast prepared by the staff for the December FOMC meeting was little revised on balance. The staff continued to expect that real GDP growth would be strong in the fourth quarter of 2018, although somewhat slower than the rapid pace of growth in the previous two quarters. Over the 2018-20 period, real GDP was forecast to rise at a rate above the staff's estimate of potential output growth and then slow to a pace below it in 2021. The unemployment rate was projected to decline further below the staff's estimate of its longer-run natural rate but to bottom out by 2020 and begin to edge up in 2021. With labor market conditions already tight, the staff continued to assume that projected employment gains would manifest in smaller-than-usual downward pressure on the unemployment rate and in larger-than-usual upward pressure on the labor force participation rate.

The staff expected both total and core PCE price inflation to be just a touch below 2 percent in 2018, with total inflation revised down a bit because of recent declines in consumer energy prices. Core PCE price inflation was forecast to move up to 2 percent in 2019 and remain at that level through the medium term; total inflation was forecast to be a little below core inflation in 2019, reflecting projected declines in energy prices, and then to run at the same level as core inflation over the following two years. The staff's medium-term projections for both total and core PCE price inflation were little revised on net.

The staff viewed the uncertainty around its projections for real GDP growth, the unemployment rate, and inflation as similar to the average of the past 20 years. The staff also saw the risks to the forecasts for real GDP growth and the unemployment rate as balanced. On the upside, household spending and business investment could expand faster than the staff projected, supported in part by the tax cuts enacted last year. On the downside, trade policies and foreign economic developments could move in directions that have significant negative effects on U.S. economic growth. Risks to the inflation projection also were seen as balanced. The upside risk that inflation could increase more than expected in an economy that was projected to move further above its potential was counterbalanced by the downside risk that longer-term inflation expectations may be lower than was assumed in the staff forecast.