The information reviewed for the December 18-19 meeting indicated that labor market conditions continued to strengthen in recent months and that real GDP growth was strong. Consumer price inflation, as measured by the 12-month percentage change in the price index for personal consumption expenditures (PCE), was 2 percent in October. Survey-based measures of longer-run inflation expectations were little changed on balance.

Total nonfarm payroll employment expanded further in November, and job gains were strong, on average, over recent months. The national unemployment rate remained at a very low level of 3.7 percent, and both the labor force participation rate and the employment-to-population ratio also stayed flat in November. The unemployment rates for African Americans, Asians, and Hispanics in November were below their levels at the end of the previous economic expansion. The share of workers employed part time for economic reasons was still close to the lows reached in late 2007. The rates of private-sector job openings and quits were both still at high levels in October; initial claims for unemployment insurance benefits in early December were still close to historically low levels. Total labor compensation per hour in the nonfarm business sector--a volatile measure even on a four-quarter change basis--increased 2.2 percent over the four quarters ending in the third quarter. Average hourly earnings for all employees rose 3.1 percent over the 12 months ending in November.

Industrial production expanded, on net, over October and November. Output increased in the mining and utilities sectors, while manufacturing production edged down on balance. Automakers' assembly schedules suggested that production of light motor vehicles would rise in December, and new orders indexes from national and regional manufacturing surveys pointed to moderate gains in total factory output in the coming months.

Household spending continued to increase at a strong pace in recent months. Real PCE growth was brisk in October, and the components of the nominal retail sales used by the Bureau of Economic Analysis to construct its estimate of PCE rose considerably in November. The pace of light motor vehicle sales edged down in November but stayed near its recent elevated level. Key factors that influence consumer spending--including ongoing gains in real disposable personal income and the effects of earlier increases in equity prices and home values on households' net worth--continued to be supportive of solid real PCE growth in the near term. Consumer sentiment, as measured by the University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers, remained relatively upbeat through early December.

Real residential investment appeared to be declining further in the fourth quarter, likely reflecting in part the effects of the rise in mortgage interest rates over the past year on the affordability of housing. Starts of new single-family homes decreased in October and November, although starts of multifamily units rose sharply in November. Building permit issuance for new single-family homes, which tends to be a good indicator of the underlying trend in construction of such homes, moved down modestly over recent months. Sales of new homes declined markedly in October, although existing home sales increased modestly.

Growth in real private expenditures for business equipment and intellectual property looked to be picking up solidly in the fourth quarter after moderating in the previous quarter. Nominal shipments of nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft moved up in October. Forward-looking indicators of business equipment spending--such as a rising backlog of unfilled orders for nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft and upbeat readings on business sentiment--pointed to further spending gains in the near term. Nominal business expenditures for nonresidential structures outside of the drilling and mining sector declined modestly in October, while the number of crude oil and natural gas rigs in operation--an indicator of business spending for structures in the drilling and mining sector--held about steady in November through early December.

Total real government purchases appeared to be rising moderately in the fourth quarter. Nominal defense spending in October and November pointed to solid growth in real federal purchases. Real purchases by state and local governments looked to be only edging up, as nominal construction spending by these governments rose solidly in October but their payrolls declined a little in October and November.

The nominal U.S. international trade deficit widened slightly in October. Exports declined a little, with decreases in exports of agricultural products and capital goods, although exports of industrial supplies increased. Imports rose a bit, with increases in imports of consumer goods and automotive products, but imports of capital goods declined sharply from September's elevated level. Available trade data suggested that the contribution of the change in net exports to the rate of real GDP growth in the fourth quarter would be much less negative than the drag of nearly 2 percentage points in the third quarter.

Total U.S. consumer prices, as measured by the PCE price index, increased 2 percent over the 12 months ending in October. Core PCE price inflation, which excludes changes in consumer food and energy prices, was 1.8 percent over that same period. The consumer price index (CPI) rose 2.2 percent over the 12 months ending in November, and core CPI inflation was also 2.2 percent. Recent readings on survey-based measures of longer-run inflation expectations--including those from the Michigan survey, the Survey of Professional Forecasters, and the Desk's Survey of Primary Dealers and Survey of Market Participants--were little changed on balance.

Foreign economic growth continued at a moderate pace in the third quarter, as a pickup in emerging market economies (EMEs) roughly offset slowing growth in advanced foreign economies (AFEs). Among EMEs, growth in Mexico and Brazil bounced back from transitory second-quarter weakness, more than offsetting a slowdown in China and India. The softness in AFE growth partly reflected temporary factors, including disruptions from natural disasters in Japan and the adoption of new car emissions testing in Germany. Indicators for economic activity in the fourth quarter were consistent with continued moderate foreign economic growth. Foreign inflation fell in recent months, largely reflecting a significant drag from lower oil prices. Underlying inflation pressures, especially in some AFEs, remained muted.