Real GDP appeared to be advancing at a solid rate in the fourth quarter, albeit well below its extraordinary pace in the third quarter. Consumer spending appeared to be on a flatter trajectory, but spending for equipment and software and residential construction continued to surge. Meanwhile, the labor market had finally shown signs of some improvement in recent months, and activity in the industrial sector was continuing to rise. Consumer price inflation remained quiescent: The twelve-month change in core consumer prices was notably lower than the increase during the preceding year.

Private nonfarm payrolls rose moderately in November, although by less than the substantial gains in September and October. The increases in November were fairly widespread, with notable advances in temporary help services, nonbusiness services, and construction. Although employment continued to fall in manufacturing, the losses had tapered off since the first half of the year. The average workweek and aggregate hours worked by nonfarm employees increased significantly, and the average level of nonfarm employee hours in October and November was noticeably above the average in the third quarter. The unemployment rate fell to 5.9 percent in November, down from a recent peak of 6.4 percent at midyear.

Industrial production grew solidly in the third quarter, and the momentum continued in October apart from the production of motor vehicles and parts, which fell back from an elevated third-quarter level. High-tech output accelerated in the third quarter to the fastest pace since the middle of 2000, and production gains continued at a rapid pace in October. Outside the manufacturing sector, unseasonably warm weather contributed to an increase in output at utilities in October, while mining production declined a bit, largely reflecting a decrease in the production of crude oil. Capacity utilization edged up in October but remained well below its longer-term average.

Consumer spending slipped a little on balance in September and October after soaring in July and August. Much of the recent decline was the result of a pullback in purchases of motor vehicles; elsewhere, expenditures were about unchanged in September and rose modestly in October. Spending was supported by the upturn in employment, continued impetus from the recently enacted tax cuts, improved confidence, and a level of wealth that was considerably above that of earlier in the year.

Housing activity surged in October. Single-family housing starts reached a record high, while multifamily starts moved down but remained in line with the average pace during the previous two years. Sales of existing single-family homes in October were only a bit below the record level set in September. The pace of new home sales also remained brisk in October, albeit down somewhat from September.

The data on orders for, and shipments of, nondefense capital goods through October suggested continued momentum in spending on equipment and software, which grew in the third quarter at the fastest pace since 1998. Robust gains in spending were posted in the third quarter in all the major categories except aircraft. The gains were associated with recent increases in business output and corporate cash flow and with a decline this year in the user cost of capital. Shipments of high-tech equipment climbed further in October, while shipments in other nondefense sectors excluding aircraft edged down. New orders of nondefense equipment excluding aircraft in October continued the upward trend in place since the beginning of the year and were consistent with ongoing gains in equipment spending. Outlays for the construction of private-sector nonresidential buildings fell a bit in October, but the extended contraction in spending on nonresidential construction appeared to be ending. Nominal spending on office space edged up in September and October, while outlays for the construction of other commercial buildings moved lower. Expenditures on institutional buildings changed little in recent months.

Real nonfarm inventories fell moderately in the third quarter after declining substantially in the second. Manufacturers liquidated stocks by a larger amount in the third quarter than in the previous quarter but added slightly to their inventories in October. Wholesalers and retailers (excluding those selling motor vehicles and parts) built up inventories in the third quarter, and, for wholesalers, the stockbuilding continued in October (data on retail inventories in October were unavailable). Still, inventory-sales ratios in all three categories declined a bit further in the third quarter from already very low levels.

The international trade deficit increased in September as imports of goods and services rose more than exports. Recent data suggested that a recovery had taken hold in the major foreign industrial countries. Growth in real GDP picked up in the third quarter in the euro area, the United Kingdom, and Canada, and indicators in Japan were consistent with continued economic expansion.

Core consumer price inflation remained subdued in October, although it was up from even lower levels in the first part of the year, when it was depressed by transitory factors. Over the twelve months ending in October, core consumer prices rose only slightly and noticeably less than in the previous twelve-month period. Total twelve-month consumer inflation was unchanged over the period owing to accelerations in food and energy prices. Producer prices for both core and total finished goods posted unusually large increases in October, reflecting in part a sizable advance in the prices of motor vehicles. Twelve-month core producer price inflation, however, was on balance unchanged over the year ending October, although the twelve-month change in overall producer prices stood well above its year-earlier level owing to a jump in food and energy price inflation. With regard to labor costs, the average hourly earnings of production or nonsupervisory workers on private nonfarm payrolls rose slightly in the twelve months ending in November; the increase was a bit below that in the previous twelve months. By contrast, the increase in the employment cost index for hourly compensation in private industry for the twelve months ending in September was a bit higher than a year earlier, reflecting a pickup in benefit costs.