At its meeting of October 28, 2003, the Federal Open Market Committee adopted a directive that called for maintaining conditions in reserve markets consistent with keeping the federal funds rate at around 1 percent. In reaching this decision, the Committee members generally perceived the upside and downside risks to the attainment of sustainable growth for the next few quarters to be roughly equal; however, they viewed the probability, though minor, of an unwelcome fall in inflation as exceeding that of a rise in inflation from its already low level. The Committee judged that, on balance, the risk of inflation becoming undesirably low remained the predominant concern for the foreseeable future. In those circumstances, the Committee believed that policy accommodation could be maintained for a considerable period.

The Committee's decision at the October meeting to leave its target for the federal funds rate unchanged had been widely anticipated, and rates on near-dated federal funds futures were virtually unchanged. However, the Committee's retention of both an unchanged risk assessment and its indication that policy could remain accommodative for a considerable period, which market participants apparently had seen as less certain outcomes, precipitated a brief rally in Treasury markets. Over the intermeeting period as a whole, intermediate- and longer-term Treasury yields were basically unchanged. Upward movements in response to data releases showing an economy building momentum were offset by the market response to several statements by policymakers reiterating that policy could remain accommodative and to the November employment report, which included a smaller gain in private nonfarm payrolls than market participants had expected. Yields on investment-grade corporate securities were also essentially unchanged, while yields on speculative-grade securities declined, continuing the narrowing of their risk spreads. Major equity indexes were up moderately over the intermeeting period.

The exchange value of the dollar, as measured by the major currencies index, declined somewhat, on net, over the intermeeting period. The dollar had appreciated in late October and early November following several stronger-than-expected U.S. economic data releases. But the dollar depreciated, on net, over the remainder of the intermeeting period, reflecting concerns about an escalation of trade frictions prompted by the U.S. imposition of import quotas on Chinese textiles, the ability of the United States to continue to finance its current account deficit, and risks stemming from developments in Afghanistan, Iraq, and Turkey.

M2 contracted significantly in November for the third consecutive month. A sizable part of the declines in these three months appeared to be due to the falloff in mortgage refinancing activity and the resulting reductions in associated deposit balances. In addition, rising equity markets may have made M2 accounts relatively less attractive.