The Chairman noted that the President had recently signed the Financial Services Regulatory Relief Act of 2006, which among its provisions gave the Federal Reserve discretion, beginning October 2011, both to pay interest on reserve balances and to reduce further or eliminate reserve requirements. The Act potentially has important implications for many aspects of the Federal Reserve's operations and the Chairman asked Vincent Reinhart, Director of the Division of Monetary Affairs, to form a committee of Federal Reserve System staff to consider these issues.

In the Committee's discussion of monetary policy for the intermeeting period, nearly all members favored keeping the target federal funds rate at 5-1/4 percent at this meeting. The Committee's view of the outlook for economic growth and inflation had changed little since the previous meeting. Nearly all members expected that the economy would expand close to or a little below its potential growth rate and that inflation would ebb gradually from its elevated levels. Although substantial uncertainty continued to attend that outlook, most members judged that the downside risks to economic activity had diminished a little, and likewise, some members felt that the upside risks to inflation had declined, albeit only slightly. All members agreed that the risks to achieving the anticipated reduction in inflation remained of greatest concern. Members noted that a significant amount of data would be published before the next Committee meeting in December, giving the Committee ample scope to refine its assessment of the economic outlook before judging whether any additional firming was needed to address those risks.

Members agreed that the statement to be released after the meeting should continue to convey that inflation risks remained the dominant concern and that additional policy firming was possible. The Committee concurred that the statement should mention both that economic growth had slowed over the course of the year and that, going forward, the economy seemed likely to expand at a moderate pace. With energy prices well off the highs reached earlier in the year, members felt that it was no longer appropriate to note that the high level of energy prices had the potential to sustain inflation pressures.

At the conclusion of the discussion, the Committee voted to authorize and direct the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, until it was instructed otherwise, to execute transactions in the System Account in accordance with the following domestic policy directive:

"The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions that will foster price stability and promote sustainable growth in output. To further its long-run objectives, the Committee in the immediate future seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with maintaining the federal funds rate at an average of around 5-1/4 percent."
The vote encompassed approval of the text below for inclusion in the statement to be released at 2:15 p.m.:

"Nonetheless, the Committee judges that some inflation risks remain. The extent and timing of any additional firming that may be needed to address these risks will depend on the evolution of the outlook for both inflation and economic growth, as implied by incoming information."
Votes for this action: Messrs. Bernanke and Geithner, Ms. Bies, Messrs. Kohn, Kroszner, and Mishkin, Ms. Pianalto, Messrs. Poole and Warsh, and Ms. Yellen.

Votes against this action:Mr. Lacker

Mr. Lacker dissented because he believed that further tightening was needed to help ensure that core inflation declines to an acceptable rate in coming quarters.

The Committee then continued its discussion of communication issues and considered the advantages and disadvantages of quantifying an inflation objective. Participants stressed that any such step had to be consistent with the statutory objectives for monetary policy. In that regard, it was noted that over time price stability is a prerequisite for maximum employment and moderate long-term interest rates. However, the possible specification of a numerical price objective raised a number of complex and interrelated issues that required considerable further discussion. The Committee reached no decisions on these issues at this meeting, and participants agreed to continue the Committee's review of communication issues at its meeting in January 2007.

The meeting adjourned at 1:30 p.m.

Notation Vote
By notation vote completed on October 10, 2006, the Committee unanimously approved the minutes of the FOMC meeting held on September 20, 2006.