In their discussion of the economic situation and outlook, meeting participants noted that incoming data over the relatively brief intermeeting period had come in broadly as anticipated. The most recent indicators suggested that economic growth had probably slowed more sharply in the third quarter than had been expected at the time of the September meeting, but that appeared to largely reflect the impact of temporary influences. Participants continued to expect the economy to expand at a rate close to or a little below the economy's long-run sustainable pace over coming quarters. The ongoing adjustment in the housing market was likely to depress real activity in the near term, but this effect was expected to wane gradually; private final domestic purchases had held up well in recent months and looked set to expand at a reasonably good pace. Although recent monthly inflation readings indicated some slowing of core inflation from the very rapid rates of spring and early summer, many participants noted that current rates of core inflation remained undesirably high. Most participants expected core inflation to moderate gradually, but they were quite uncertain as to the likely pace and extent of that moderation.

In their discussion of the major sectors of the economy, participants noted that housing activity was likely to remain a substantial drag on economic growth over the next few quarters. Many participants drew some comfort from the most recent data, which suggested that the correction in the housing market was likely to be no more severe than they had previously expected and that the risk of an even larger contraction in this sector had ebbed. But further adjustment in the housing market appeared likely. Single-family housing permits continued to fall and inventories of unsold homes remained at historically high levels. Contacts in the building sector suggested that construction firms were attempting to reduce their backlogs of unsold homes, both by cutting back sharply on new construction and by offering substantial price incentives. Several meeting participants noted the considerable strain on some small- and medium-sized residential construction firms.

To date, weakness in the housing market and the associated downshift in house price appreciation did not seem to be spilling over into consumer spending, which appeared to have grown at a steady pace in recent months. Retail activity in most Districts had been relatively robust and contacts in the retail sector were generally upbeat about the outlook. Several participants noted, however, that contacts within the transportation sector had reported that activity in anticipation of the holiday shopping season appeared to be softer than in previous years. Meeting participants judged that consumer expenditures going forward were likely to expand at a steady pace a little below the growth in disposable income, supported by favorable financial conditions, continued increases in employment and income, and the recent decline in energy prices. Nonetheless, many participants expressed concern that ongoing developments in the housing market could have a more pronounced impact on consumer and other spending, especially if house prices declined significantly.

Investment spending also appeared to be holding up well. Meeting participants reported that their business contacts were generally optimistic and perceived the economic outlook as relatively favorable. Several participants noted that growth in nonresidential construction remained robust and was absorbing some of the resources displaced from the residential sector. The strength of corporate balance sheets and profits was seen as likely to help maintain a solid profile for investment spending over the next year or so, despite some restraint from the slower growth in final sales. However, one participant observed that the uncertainty concerning the possible severity of the current slowing in economic growth could lead some businesses to delay investment plans.

In contrast to the steady expansion of consumer and business investment spending in recent months, several other components of output and demand appeared to have been somewhat weaker than expected. In particular, apparently uncomfortably high levels of inventories within the auto sector had prompted a sharp reduction in light vehicle production in the third quarter. Federal expenditures had been held down by surprisingly weak defense outlays. And strong growth in imports in July and August, driven in part by a surge in oil imports, suggested that net exports probably posed an arithmetic drag on economic growth in the third quarter. However, participants judged that the recent weakness in these components largely reflected temporary influences and was not likely to depress the pace of economic expansion going forward. That said, one participant did note the possibility that the recent decline in oil prices may in part stem from weakness in global demand.

Both data and reports from businesses indicated that the labor market remained tight. Employment had continued to rise at a steady pace, and participants reported that many of their contacts were increasingly concerned about the difficulty of recruiting suitably qualified workers. Shortages were most pronounced for certain types of professional and skilled workers. These reports of shortages and the associated wage pressures had not unambiguously shown through in the aggregate compensation data, which were giving contradictory signals about whether compensation increases were picking up. However, the possibility that the tightness of the labor market could lead to a sustained increase in wage pressure was viewed by participants as an upside risk to costs and their expectations of a gradual decline in inflation. It was noted, though, that continuing high profit margins provided some scope for increased labor costs to be absorbed without necessarily leading to elevated price pressures.

All meeting participants expressed concern about the outlook for inflation. Most participants expected core inflation to edge lower, in part as the effects of the run-up in energy prices in recent years waned. And shelter costs were not expected to add materially to inflation going forward. Moreover, moderate growth in aggregate demand and the associated modest easing of pressures on resource utilization should also contribute slightly to the slowing in core inflation. Recent changes in core prices had declined slightly from earlier in the year. Nonetheless, nearly all participants viewed the current rates of core inflation as uncomfortably high and stressed the importance of further moderation. The available measures suggested that medium- and long-term inflation expectations remained around the levels seen for the past several years, although in the view of some participants these expectations were probably higher than would be consistent with their assessment of long-run price stability. Participants were concerned that inflation expectations could begin to drift upwards if core inflation remained elevated for a protracted period. Any such rise in inflation expectations and associated upward pressure on inflation itself would likely prove costly to reverse. Although some participants noted that the recent slowing in core inflation had helped to allay their fears of a further sustained increase in inflation, all participants emphasized that the risks around the desired downward path to inflation remained to the upside.