The information reviewed at the October meeting suggested that economic activity increased at a slow pace in the third quarter. The contraction in home construction remained a significant drag on economic activity, and steep reductions in motor vehicle assemblies further weighed on growth in the third quarter. Nonetheless, consumer spending and business investment continued to hold up well. Payroll employment extended its moderate expansion, on average, through September. Sharp declines in energy prices reduced total consumer price inflation in September, but the twelve-month change in core prices remained elevated relative to year-earlier readings.

Nonfarm payrolls rose modestly in September after a larger increase in August, with some of the variation apparently a result of seasonal factors. In September, job increases in the service-producing sectors were fairly widespread and were again led by the health-care industry. The construction sector also added jobs; the lift came from gains associated with nonresidential building that more than offset further losses in the residential sector. Job cutbacks in the retail trade and manufacturing sectors continued. Aggregate hours of private production or nonsupervisory workers again edged lower. The unemployment rate ticked down to 4.6 percent in August.

After having been flat in August, industrial production declined in September, reflecting a sizable weather-related decrease in the output of utilities and a fairly broad-based reduction in manufacturing output. These declines were partially offset by a rise in output in the mining sector that was led by gains in crude oil extraction and in mined construction supplies, such as stone, sand, and gravel. The output of motor vehicles and parts fell in September, as automakers continued to trim production of light trucks in response to bloated inventories. Output growth in the high-technology sector softened a bit in September relative to the summer months, reflecting a smaller rise in the production of semiconductors. Computer production continued to increase at a tepid rate, while output of communications equipment turned up noticeably after a decline in August. For the third quarter as a whole, growth in industrial production moderated a bit relative to the first half of the year; stronger output in the high-technology sector and a pickup in the production of business equipment partially offset a steep contraction in the output of motor vehicles and parts and a slowdown in mining output.

Real consumer spending appeared to regain some steam in September after a lackluster August. Although nominal retail sales fell noticeably in September, the steep drop in gasoline prices more than accounted for the decline. Excluding sales at gasoline stations, the step-up in consumer spending was the result of faster sales of motor vehicles and broad-based strength in outlays for other categories of goods, particularly apparel. Real disposable income rose moderately in both July and August; the pace was somewhat above its second-quarter average. Consumer spending continued to draw support from the lagged effects of the increases in household wealth over the past two years. But interest rates on some types of household loans, both short- and long-term, had risen this year, on balance. The latest readings on consumer sentiment had been positive, perhaps reflecting the recent declines in oil prices. The personal saving rate edged up in August after a dip in July.

Residential construction activity remained weak. Single-family starts ticked up in September, but new permit issuance slid further to its lowest level in nearly five years. Construction in the multifamily sector continued to fluctuate within the range that has prevailed for several years. Sales of new single-family homes edged up in August, while sales of existing homes held steady. Pending home sales, which rose somewhat in August after a noticeable drop in July, and the decline in mortgage rates since July likely indicated some support for housing demand in the near term. Still, the overhang of unsold homes remained historically high, and price appreciation of existing homes continued to slow through the second quarter.

Real spending on equipment and software increased at a solid pace during the summer as the fundamental influences on such spending remained favorable for the most part. In particular, although business output had recently been rising at a slower rate, corporate financial reserves remained plentiful and the cost of high-tech capital goods continued to fall. In the high-tech sector, real outlays on communications equipment likely stabilized in August after having surged earlier this year, and the available data suggested that real computer spending picked up in the third quarter. In the transportation sector, business purchases of motor vehicles were brisk of late; the Environmental Protection Agency's regulations on truck emissions that are scheduled to take effect in 2007 likely pulled forward some spending on medium and heavy trucks. Outlays on aircraft appeared to have risen somewhat in the third quarter from their extremely low second-quarter level. Real spending on equipment other than high-tech and transportation items seemed to have retained considerable momentum in the third quarter. Activity in the nonresidential construction sector continued to strengthen in August.

Book-value data on manufacturing and trade inventories, which were available through August, suggested that the rate of stockbuilding remained substantial in the third quarter. A major exception was the motor vehicle sector, where the cutbacks in assemblies probably began to reduce the inventory overhang in that sector. Outside of the motor vehicle sector, inventories generally appeared to be well aligned with demand. Although survey data in September showed a noticeable rise in the share of firms that viewed their inventories as being too high, a large majority remained comfortable with their level.

The U.S. international trade deficit widened to another record in August, reflecting a surge in imports that more than offset a sizable jump in exports. The sharp increase in imports was driven importantly by oil and natural gas, but imports of capital goods and non-oil industrial supplies, particularly metals, also exhibited large gains. Imports of services fell back slightly. The increase in exports was led by capital goods, with aircraft, computers, semiconductors, and other machinery all climbing briskly. Exports of industrial supplies and consumer goods also rose strongly, while exports of services expanded modestly.

Economic activity in the foreign industrial economies continued to expand at a relatively solid pace in the third quarter. Investment spending boosted the expansion in Japan. In the euro area, data on industrial production and retail sales were consistent with robust growth in real activity. Mixed indicators in Canada and the United Kingdom suggested that output growth in those countries remained around recent rates. Incoming data across the emerging-market economies continued to point to moderating, but solid, growth in economic activity in the third quarter.

Core prices for personal consumption expenditures were expected to have risen in September at the same pace as in July and August, leaving the change over the twelve months ending in September a bit higher than the year-earlier period. Increases in shelter costs, which accounted for a significant proportion of the pickup in core inflation over the past year, had slowed considerably in recent months but remained well above the rates that prevailed from 2003 to 2005. The price index for total personal consumption expenditures was estimated to have fallen markedly in September because of the steep decline in gasoline prices, bringing its twelve-month increase to a two-and-one-half-year low. Retail gasoline prices fell especially rapidly in September as crude oil prices declined and as the historically high level of gasoline inventories likely led to a sharp narrowing of margins between retail gasoline prices and crude oil prices. The producer price index for core intermediate materials rose only slightly in September; the increase was well below its average monthly advance over the preceding twelve months, reflecting a drop in prices of some chemicals that have a high energy content. Average hourly earnings increased moderately in both August and September after a larger gain in July. Survey measures of households' year-ahead inflation expectations eased substantially in early October with the sharp drop in energy prices. Respondents' longer-term inflation expectations changed little, remaining well within the narrow range reported over the past year.

At its September meeting, the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) decided to maintain its target for the federal funds rate at 5-1/4 percent. The Committee's accompanying statement indicated that the moderation in economic growth had appeared to be continuing, partly reflecting a cooling of the housing market. Readings on core inflation had been elevated, and the high levels of resource utilization and of the prices of energy and other commodities had the potential to sustain inflation pressures. However, inflation pressures seemed likely to moderate over time, reflecting reduced impetus from energy prices, contained inflation expectations, and the cumulative effects of monetary policy actions and other factors restraining aggregate demand. Nonetheless, the Committee judged that some inflation risks remained. The extent and timing of any additional firming that may be needed to address these risks would depend on the evolution of the outlook for both inflation and economic growth, as implied by incoming information.