Financial market developments over the intermeeting period were driven by an escalation in international trade tensions, growing concerns about the global economic growth outlook, and the prospect of more policy accommodation by central banks. Nominal Treasury yields posted very large declines in August as investors reacted to the U.S. Administration's announcement of additional tariffs on Chinese goods, along with the depreciation of the Chinese renminbi through the perceived threshold of 7 renminbi per U.S. dollar and the associated implications of these actions for the global economic outlook. Treasury yields partially rebounded following better-than-expected incoming economic data in the United States and abroad, a perceived reduction in the probability of a no‑deal Brexit, and some positive headlines about trade policy. The market-implied path of the federal funds rate shifted down on net. Broad equity price indexes were down as much as 6 percent in early August but almost fully recovered by the end of the intermeeting period. Spreads on investment-grade corporate bonds widened modestly, while those on speculative-grade corporate bonds were little changed on net. Financing conditions for businesses and households were largely unaffected by the intermeeting turbulence in financial markets and remained generally supportive of spending and economic activity.

Measures of expectations of the near- and medium-term path for the federal funds rate were particularly sensitive to news about U.S.–China trade tensions, while FOMC communications had only modest effects on market-based measures of policy rate expectations. A straight read of the option-implied probability distribution of the federal funds rate suggested that the odds investors attached to a 25 basis point reduction in the target range of the federal funds rate at the September FOMC meeting increased from about 50 percent at the time of the July FOMC meeting to 90 percent by the end of the intermeeting period. Respondents to the Desk's Survey of Primary Dealers and Survey of Market Participants assigned, on average, similarly high odds to a rate decrease at the September FOMC meeting. In addition, market-implied expectations for the federal funds rate at year-end and beyond moved down. A straight read of OIS (overnight index swap) forward rates suggested that investors expected the federal funds rate to decline about 45 basis points by year-end, to a level nearly 10 basis points lower than was expected at the time of the July FOMC meeting, and to decrease an additional roughly 45 basis points by the end of 2020.

Nominal Treasury yields decreased, on net, over the intermeeting period, with longer-term yields falling the most. The spread between 10‑year and 3-month Treasury yields became a bit more negative, while the spread between 10-year and 2-year Treasury yields turned negative for the first time since 2007 and fluctuated around zero until the September FOMC meeting. Measures of inflation compensation derived from Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities declined on net.

Broad stock price indexes decreased slightly, on net, over the intermeeting period amid heightened volatility. The escalation of trade tensions between China and the United States weighed on equity prices, but investors' expectations that major central banks would shift toward more accommodative monetary policies provided some support. Equity prices were also boosted by better-than-anticipated corporate earnings and retail-sector data. Stock prices of firms with high exposure to China underperformed the broader market somewhat, as did bank stocks amid downward revisions to banks' earnings forecasts. Conversely, the stock prices of utilities and real estate firms increased noticeably, reportedly benefiting from demand by investors reaching for less cyclical and higher-yielding assets. One-month option-implied volatility on the S&P 500 index—the VIX—was little changed, on net, over the intermeeting period and remained at the lower end of its historical distribution after retracing a sharp increase in early August.

Despite the volatility in many domestic and global financial markets over the intermeeting period, conditions in domestic short-term funding markets remained stable until the Monday before the September FOMC meeting, when flows associated with a combination of corporate tax payments and Treasury coupon securities settlements led to significant tightening of conditions, particularly for overnight funding. The EFFR rose to the top of the target range on September 16 and exceeded it by 5 basis points on September 17, after which funding pressures eased somewhat following the Desk's open market operations. On net, the EFFR averaged 2.14 percent over the current intermeeting period, with the spread to the IOER rate down a bit relative to the previous intermeeting period.

Early in the intermeeting period, bond yields in the advanced foreign economies (AFEs) plunged and foreign equities declined notably following an increase in U.S.–China trade tensions. Some weakness in foreign economic data, growing concerns about global growth, and the prospect of more monetary policy accommodation abroad contributed to further declines in yields. Later in the period, AFE yields partially rebounded and foreign equity prices fully recovered on some easing of U.S.­–China trade tensions, as well as perceptions of reduced political uncertainty in the United Kingdom and Italy. Financial market reactions were mixed after the European Central Bank (ECB) announced a package of policy easing measures, including a rate cut on deposits at the ECB, resumption of its asset purchase program, and more favorable terms for longer-term lending to banks.

The dollar appreciated against emerging market currencies but was little changed, on balance, against AFE currencies, leaving the broad dollar index slightly higher. Emerging market sovereign bond spreads widened notably. The Argentine peso depreciated sharply and Argentine sovereign yields soared following the defeat of the current pro-market president in the primary election and the subsequent announcement of plans for debt restructuring and the imposition of capital controls.

Financing conditions for nonfinancial businesses remained accommodative. Overall issuance of corporate bonds was solid in August, driven by resilient investment-grade issuance. While speculative-grade corporate bond issuance was somewhat subdued in August, it was comparable to that seen over the same period in 2018. Growth of commercial and industrial loans at banks ticked up, driven by faster growth at large domestic banks. There were no initial public equity offerings by domestic firms in August amid increased market volatility, but several deals were expected to be completed in the coming months. On balance, the credit quality of nonfinancial corporations weakened slightly, with the volume of nonfinancial corporate bond downgrades modestly outpacing that of upgrades in recent months. Credit conditions for both small businesses and municipalities remained accommodative on balance.

In the commercial real estate (CRE) sector, financing conditions remained generally accommodative. Bank CRE loan growth slowed moderately since the second quarter, driven by slower growth in loans secured by nonfarm nonresidential properties. The volume of agency and non-agency commercial mortgage-backed securities issuance was slightly weaker in July and August than in the same period last year, though industry analysts reportedly anticipated that issuance would soon pick up in response to recent declines in interest rates.

Financing conditions in the residential mortgage market eased over the intermeeting period. Residential mortgage rates declined less than long-term Treasury yields, as the increase in prepayment risk and the rise in implied interest rate volatility reportedly reduced the demand for mortgage-backed securities. Home-purchase originations and refinancing originations both rose.

Financing conditions in consumer credit markets remained generally supportive of growth in consumer spending, al­though supply conditions continued to be tight for subprime credit card borrowers. Consumer credit expanded at a moderate pace in the second quarter overall, with bank credit data pointing to continued growth through July and August. In consumer asset-backed securities markets, issuance was solid, and spreads remained at relatively low levels, though somewhat above their post-crisis averages.