Over the intermeeting period, longer-term Treasury yields rose notably, while shorter-term yields were little changed, and the market-implied path for the federal funds rate through 2024 declined slightly. The increase in longer-term Treasury yields appeared to be mostly attributable to higher term premiums, as stronger-than-expected economic data seemed to increase the uncertainty regarding how long policy rates might need to remain high. Meanwhile, equity prices decreased, and spreads on investment- and speculative-grade corporate bonds widened. Financing conditions tightened further, and borrowing costs continued to rise.

The market-implied path for the federal funds rate through 2024 declined slightly over the intermeeting period. Beyond 2024, the policy rate path implied by overnight index swap quotes increased, likely reflecting, in part, higher term premiums. The rise in longer-term nominal Treasury yields was driven by real yields. Short-term inflation compensation fluctuated notably over the intermeeting period, largely following the changes in energy prices, but ended the period modestly lower.

Broad stock price indexes declined over the intermeeting period. Equity prices in interest rate–sensitive sectors, such as real estate and utilities, underperformed the broader market. Stock prices of banks also declined more than broader equity indexes. The one-month option-implied volatility on the S&P 500 index increased notably over the intermeeting period but remained below the peaks observed in the first quarter of 2023.

Over the intermeeting period, foreign asset prices were largely driven by spillovers from the rise in longer-term U.S. Treasury yields. Longer-term sovereign bond yields for advanced foreign economies rose, foreign equity prices declined, foreign credit spreads generally widened, and investors continued to withdraw from emerging market economy funds. Stronger-than-expected U.S. data on economic activity and widening interest rate differentials between the U.S. and the rest of the world contributed to an increase in the staff's broad dollar index. The Bank of Japan increased the flexibility of its yield curve control framework, which contributed to the rise in longer-term Japanese government bond yields. The armed conflict between Israel and Hamas left a limited net imprint on foreign financial markets over this period.

Conditions in short-term funding markets remained stable over the intermeeting period. Take-up in the ON RRP facility continued to decline over the period. That decline primarily reflected money market funds reducing their usage of the facility and increasing their holdings of Treasury bills and private market repos in response to slightly more attractive rates on these alternative investments. Banks' total deposit levels were roughly unchanged over the intermeeting period, as outflows of core deposits were about offset by inflows of large time deposits, which tend to be more expensive sources of funding. Wholesale borrowing by large banks increased over the intermeeting period.

In domestic credit markets, borrowing costs for businesses, households, and municipalities continued to rise from already elevated levels over the intermeeting period, primarily reflecting increases in longer-term Treasury yields. Interest rates on commercial and industrial (C&I) loans and small business loans increased, as did rates on loans to households, including for 30-year conforming residential mortgages, new auto loans, and credit cards. Rates also moved up on a broad array of fixed-income securities, including residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities, municipal bonds, and corporate bonds. Yields on corporate bonds rose more than Treasury yields, particularly for speculative-grade bonds.

Credit continued to be generally available to businesses, households, and municipalities. Total core loans on banks' books continued to increase in the third quarter, al­though at a slower pace than earlier in the year. However, smaller firms were finding it harder to obtain credit, with the share of small firms reporting in September that it was more difficult to obtain credit compared with three months earlier rising from an already elevated level. Capital market financing continued to be available, al­though issuance in most markets was below typical levels.

In the October Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices (SLOOS), banks reported tightening standards and terms on C&I loans to firms of all sizes in the third quarter. The most frequently cited reasons for tightening C&I standards and terms included concerns about the economic outlook, a less favorable or more uncertain economic outlook, and the effects of potential legislative changes, supervisory actions, or changes in accounting standards. Banks also reported that demand for C&I loans weakened in the third quarter, with the most frequently cited reasons being decreased investment in plant or equipment and decreased inventory financing needs. Similarly, banks indicated that commercial real estate (CRE) loan standards continued to tighten and demand weakened further in the third quarter.

Credit in the residential mortgage market remained easily available for high-credit-score borrowers who met standard conforming loan criteria. However, in the October SLOOS, banks reported tighter standards and weaker demand for almost all categories of residential real estate loans in the third quarter.

Consumer credit remained readily available for most borrowers, al­though there were signs of tightening standards. Credit card balances grew at a strong pace in August, while auto credit continued to grow at a modest pace. However, respondents to the October SLOOS reported tighter standards for all consumer loan categories in the third quarter. Meanwhile, outstanding student loan balances declined significantly in August, driven by the cancellation of student loan debt for certain borrowers.

The credit quality of businesses, households, and municipalities continued to show signs of deterioration in most sectors, as delinquency rates rose. The credit quality of nonfinancial firms borrowing in the corporate bond market remained sound overall, albeit with pockets of deterioration. The credit quality of C&I and CRE loans on banks' balance sheets remained generally stable through August. However, delinquency rates for nonfarm nonresidential CRE loans recently picked up. In the October SLOOS, banks frequently cited concerns about credit quality, including for both C&I and CRE loans, as reasons for tightening standards over the third quarter.

The staff provided an update on its assessment of the stability of the financial system and, on balance, judged that the financial vulnerabilities of the U.S. financial system were notable. The staff characterized asset valuation pressures as notable. In particular, the staff noted that valuations in equities, housing, and CRE were high. The forward price-to-earnings ratio for S&P 500 firms increased to the upper quartile of its historical distribution. House prices increased to the upper end of their historical range, relative to fundamentals, despite tight credit conditions in the mortgage market. While CRE prices declined, valuations remained stretched, with capitalization rates remaining near historical lows. Fundamentals in the office sector remained weak given the shift toward telework in many industries, especially for central business districts and coastal cities. Delinquency rates on commercial mortgage-backed securities moved up as office and retail loan performance deteriorated. Vulnerabilities associated with business and household debt were characterized as moderate.

Leverage in the financial sector was characterized as notable. In the banking sector, holdings of liquid assets remained high, and regulatory risk-based capital ratios indicated ample loss-bearing capacity in the banking system. However, the fair value of banks' longer-term fixed-rate assets, including loans, decreased in the third quarter as longer-term interest rates rose. Hedge fund leverage remained above historical averages, particularly for the largest funds. Funding risks were also characterized as notable. Reliance on uninsured deposits declined in the aggregate but remained high for some banks, and short-term nondeposit funding had increased.