The data available at the time of the October 31–November 1 meeting indicated that U.S. real gross domestic product (GDP) had expanded at a strong pace in the third quarter. Labor market conditions remained tight, with continued strong job gains and a low unemployment rate. Consumer price inflation remained elevated.

Labor demand and supply were slowly moving into better alignment. Easing labor market imbalances were apparent in the wage data, with the 12‑month changes in average hourly earnings and the employment cost index each below their year-earlier levels. Al­though total nonfarm payroll employment rose at a faster pace in September than in previous months, the unemployment rate was unchanged at 3.8 percent; the labor force participation rate and the employment-to-population ratio were also unchanged in September. The unemployment rate for African Americans rose, while the jobless rate for Hispanics declined; both rates were higher than the national average.

Consumer price inflation remained elevated but continued to show signs of slowing. The price index for total personal consumption expenditures (PCE) increased 3.4 percent over the 12 months ending in September, while core PCE price inflation, which excludes changes in energy prices and many consumer food prices, was 3.7 percent over the same period; both total and core PCE price inflation were well below their year-earlier levels. The trimmed mean measure of 12-month PCE price inflation constructed by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas was 3.8 percent in September, also down from the level posted a year ago. Survey measures of consumers' short-run inflation expectations remained above their pre-pandemic levels. In contrast, survey measures of medium- to longer-term inflation expectations remained in the range seen in the decade before the pandemic.

According to the advance estimate, real GDP posted a strong gain in the third quarter. Private domestic final purchases, which includes PCE and private fixed investment and often provides a better signal than GDP of underlying economic momentum, posted a smaller but still-solid increase.

Real exports and imports of goods and services grew at a robust pace in the third quarter after falling sharply in the second quarter, reflecting broad-based strength across categories. Net exports made a slightly negative contribution to U.S. GDP growth in the third quarter, while the nominal trade deficit narrowed somewhat.

Foreign economic growth remained subdued in the third quarter. Monetary policy restraint weighed on activity abroad, especially in Europe, where euro-area GDP growth registered a small decline and the latest European Central Bank lending survey pointed to a contraction in credit from a year ago. Al­though GDP growth in China improved in the third quarter, supported by an increase in industrial production, Chinese retail sales continued to be held back by low consumer confidence and weakness in the residential property sector.

Inflation abroad remained elevated. While core inflation continued to ease amid slowing aggregate demand, energy price inflation increased in many foreign economies. With inflation still high, most major foreign central banks, while keeping their policy rates unchanged, indicated their intentions to hold these rates at sufficiently restrictive levels to bring inflation back to target rates.