In the Committee's discussion of monetary policy for the intermeeting period, nearly all members favored keeping the target federal funds rate at 5-1/4 percent at this meeting. The outlook for economic growth and inflation was thought to have changed relatively little since the previous meeting. Nearly all members felt that maintaining the current target for now was most likely to foster moderate economic growth and a gradual ebbing of core inflation from its elevated levels. Several members judged that the subdued tone of some incoming indicators meant that the downside risks to economic growth in the near term had increased a little and become a bit more broadly based than previously thought. Nonetheless, all members agreed that the risk that inflation would fail to moderate as desired remained the predominant concern.

In light of the data received over the intermeeting period, members felt that the statement should characterize the cooling in the housing market as substantial and should note that recent indicators had been mixed. The Committee thought that the statement should reiterate that the economy seemed likely to expand at a moderate pace, while also recognizing the possibility that measured GDP growth could be somewhat uneven in coming quarters. Members agreed that the statement should continue to convey that inflation risks remained of greatest concern and that additional policy firming was possible. One member did not favor language that referenced only the possibility of additional policy firming and believed that, although the risks to inflation remained the predominant concern, the statement should emphasize that policy could be adjusted in either direction depending on the evolution of the outlook for inflation and economic growth.

At the conclusion of the discussion, the Committee voted to authorize and direct the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, until it was instructed otherwise, to execute transactions in the System Account in accordance with the following domestic policy directive:
"The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions that will foster price stability and promote sustainable growth in output. To further its long-run objectives, the Committee in the immediate future seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with maintaining the federal funds rate at an average of around 5-1/4 percent."
The vote encompassed approval of the text below for inclusion in the statement to be released at 2:15 p.m.:

"Nonetheless, the Committee judges that some inflation risks remain. The extent and timing of any additional firming that may be needed to address these risks will depend on the evolution of the outlook for both inflation and economic growth, as implied by incoming information."
Votes for this action: Messrs. Bernanke and Geithner, Ms. Bies, Messrs. Kohn, Kroszner, and Mishkin, Ms. Pianalto, Messrs. Poole and Warsh, and Ms. Yellen.

Votes against this action:Mr. Lacker

Mr. Lacker dissented because he believed that further tightening was needed to help ensure that core inflation declines to an acceptable rate in coming quarters.

Meeting participants briefly reviewed some issues regarding communications and the next steps in their continuing discussion of the topic. At the next FOMC meeting, confirmed for January 30-31, 2007, the Committee intended to consider the role that economic projections and forecasts can play in communicating information.

The meeting adjourned at 1:35 p.m.

Notation Vote
By notation vote completed on November 14, 2006, the Committee unanimously approved the minutes of the FOMC meeting held on October 24-25, 2006.