Despite some volatility in certain asset prices, financial conditions did not change appreciably, on net, over the intermeeting period. Asset prices moved in response to economic data releases that were, on balance, a little stronger than expected and to Federal Reserve communications. The anticipated path of the federal funds rate moved up somewhat, as did intermediate-dated Treasury yields, while corporate bond spreads narrowed and the S&P 500 increased slightly. The foreign exchange value of the dollar was little changed.

Federal Reserve communications garnered significant attention from market participants over the period but appeared to have only a modest net effect on their expectations for monetary policy. The communications following the conclusion of the March FOMC meeting were interpreted as somewhat less accommodative than expected. However, subsequent communications--including the release of the minutes of the March FOMC meeting--appeared to mostly reverse the earlier change in expectations.

Yields on short- and medium-term nominal Treasury securities rose, on balance, over the intermeeting period. In contrast, yields at the long end of the curve declined, continuing a downward trend evident over much of this year. Market participants cited a number of factors as contributing to the drop in long-term yields so far this year, including portfolio reallocation by large institutional investors, the trading strategies pursued by some investors, and safe-haven flows. Some market participants reportedly also revised down their estimate of the average real federal funds rate over the longer term, reflecting in part changes in their assessments of long-run economic conditions. Measures of longer-horizon inflation compensation based on Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities were little changed.

Conditions in short-term funding markets remained fairly stable over the intermeeting period. Take-up in the Federal Reserve's fixed-rate ON RRP exercise continued to be sensitive to the spread between market rates and the rate offered in the exercise, with higher take-up occurring on days when the market rate on repurchase agreements was close to or below the ON RRP rate. As has been the case since the ON RRP exercise began, money market funds increased their usage at quarter-end; take-up reached a record level of about $240 billion at the end of March. Part of the increase in ON RRP usage at the end of March relative to the end of December likely reflected higher counterparty allotment limits, which were raised from $3 billion to $7 billion during the first quarter. The allotment limit was subsequently increased to $10 billion per counterparty in early April. The seasonal paydown of short-term Treasury debt following the April tax date was accompanied by a notable pickup in participation at ON RRP operations, but Treasury repo rates generally remained very close to the ON RRP rate of 5 basis points.

The S&P 500 increased a bit, on net, over the intermeeting period, but broader stock market indexes edged down. The prices of social media and biotechnology stocks, which had risen substantially faster than the broader market over the previous year, fell sharply over the intermeeting period, leaving the gains on these shares about in line with those on broader indexes over the past 12 months. Some initial public offerings were reportedly put on hold as prices of small-capitalization stocks declined. By contrast, stocks that generally have more stable dividends, such as those of utility and telecommunications companies, advanced. First-quarter earnings reports for large banking organizations were mixed, and the stock prices of such firms generally underperformed broad equity indexes.

Credit flows to nonfinancial corporations remained robust, on balance, notwithstanding subdued bond issuance in April that was attributed to typical constraints on issuance during the period when many firms are reporting their earnings. The growth in commercial and industrial loans on banks' balance sheets remained robust, consistent with the increase in loan demand by large and middle-market firms reported in the April Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices (SLOOS). Institutional issuance of leveraged loans continued at a brisk pace amid reports of an ongoing gradual easing of credit terms and deal structures.

Financing conditions in the commercial real estate (CRE) sector improved further. In the first quarter, commercial mortgage loans held on banks' books continued to grow solidly. According to the April SLOOS, banks again eased standards on CRE loans during the first quarter; they also reported an increase in loan demand, especially for construction and land development loans. In contrast, issuance of commercial mortgage-backed securities in 2014 has been a bit slower than last year's pace.

Mortgage credit conditions generally remained tight over the intermeeting period, though signs of easing continued to emerge amid further gains in house prices. In particular, the April SLOOS indicated a net easing of banks' credit standards for home-purchase loans to prime customers in the first quarter. Mortgage interest rates and their spreads over Treasury yields were little changed over the intermeeting period, and applications for refinancing and purchase mortgages remained tepid.

Conditions in consumer credit markets continued to be mixed. Student and auto loans expanded at a robust pace, while credit card debt outstanding stayed flat, as it had been in recent months. Financing conditions in the consumer asset-backed securities market remained favorable, and issuance continued to be solid.

Most foreign equity indexes rose over the period despite a global selloff of technology-related stocks, and 10-year sovereign bond yields in Canada, Germany, and the United Kingdom were nearly unchanged on net. Yield spreads on peripheral euro-area debt over German bonds of similar maturity continued to narrow. The broad nominal exchange rate index for the dollar was about unchanged, as the dollar appreciated against the euro, yen, and renminbi but depreciated against most other currencies. Investor sentiment toward EMEs continued to improve over the period despite incoming data that were somewhat weaker than expected. Increasing tensions between Ukraine and Russia, as well as the lowering of Russia's sovereign debt rating by Standard & Poor's, contributed to a rise in Russia's 10-year sovereign bond yield and a sharp decline in its main equity index. Outside of that region, however, these building tensions left little imprint on global financial markets.

The staff's periodic report on potential risks to financial stability concluded that the vulnerability of the financial system to adverse shocks remained at moderate levels overall. Relatively strong capital profiles of large domestic banking firms, low levels of aggregate leverage in the nonfinancial sector, and moderate use of short-term wholesale funding across the financial sector were seen as the primary factors supporting overall financial stability. However, the staff report also highlighted valuation pressures in some segments of the equity market, continued strong demand for corporate debt instruments and associated pressures on underwriting standards, and liquidity risks associated with fixed-income mutual funds.