The information reviewed for the April 29-30 meeting indicated that growth in economic activity paused in the first quarter as a whole, but that activity stepped up late in the quarter; this pattern reflected, in part, the temporary effects of the unusually cold and snowy weather earlier in the quarter and the unwinding of those effects later in the quarter. In March, payroll employment increased further, although the unemployment rate held steady and was still elevated. Consumer price inflation continued to run below the Committee's longer-run objective, but measures of longer-run inflation expectations remained stable.

The unemployment rate stayed at 6.7 percent in March, but both the labor force participation rate and the employment-to-population ratio increased slightly. The rate of long-duration unemployment declined somewhat, but the share of workers employed part time for economic reasons moved up; both of these measures were still well above their pre-recession levels. Initial claims for unemployment insurance remained low over the intermeeting period. Although the rate of job openings moved up in February, the hiring rate was flat and continued to be subdued.

Following a rebound in February that was partly weather related, manufacturing production rose further in March and the rate of manufacturing capacity utilization increased. The production of motor vehicles and parts declined in March, but factory output outside of the motor vehicle sector expanded. Automakers' schedules indicated that the pace of motor vehicle assemblies in the coming months would be similar to the level in March. However, broad indicators of manufacturing production, such as the new orders indexes from the national and regional manufacturing surveys, were at levels consistent with moderate increases in factory output in the near term.

Real personal consumption expenditures (PCE) expanded slightly less rapidly in the first quarter than in the fourth quarter. After moving roughly sideways, on net, in January and February, the component of nominal retail sales used by the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) to construct its monthly estimate of PCE rose briskly in March, in part because the weather returned to more seasonal norms. Recent information on several important factors that influence household spending was positive. Real disposable income continued to increase in the first quarter, further gains in house prices likely bolstered household net worth, and consumer sentiment in the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers improved, on balance, in March and April.

The pace of activity in the housing sector remained soft, as real expenditures for residential investment decreased again in the first quarter. Starts of new single-family homes increased in March. However, permits for single-family homes--which are typically less sensitive to fluctuations in the weather and a better indicator of the underlying pace of construction--remained below their fourth-quarter level and had not shown a sustained improvement since last spring, when mortgage rates began to rise. Sales of both new and existing homes decreased in March of this year, but pending home sales rose.

Real private expenditures on business equipment and intellectual property products declined in the first quarter. However, nominal shipments of nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft rose in February and in March, and new orders were somewhat above the level of shipments, pointing to modest gains in shipments in the near term. Other forward-looking indicators, such as surveys of business conditions and capital spending plans, were also consistent with increased outlays for business equipment in the coming months. Real spending for nonresidential construction was about flat in the first quarter after declining in the fourth quarter, while real inventory investment moved lower. Business inventories in most industries appeared to be broadly aligned with sales in recent months.

Real federal government purchases rose slightly in the first quarter, as the increase from the reversal of the government shutdown in the fourth quarter was mostly offset by the ongoing downtrend in purchases. Real state and local government purchases decreased somewhat in the first quarter, as state and local construction expenditures declined.

The U.S. international trade deficit widened in February as exports fell and imports rose. The export declines were concentrated in aircraft and petroleum products, while exports of consumer goods rose. Rising imports of services and automotive products offset declines in imports of oil and capital goods. In the advance release of the national income and product accounts, the BEA estimated that net exports subtracted substantially from real gross domestic product (GDP) growth in the first quarter.

U.S. consumer prices, as measured by the PCE price index, rose at a slow rate in the first quarter, though somewhat faster than the pace posted in the fourth quarter, and were about 1 percent higher than a year earlier. After falling in the fourth quarter, consumer energy prices increased markedly in the first quarter as natural gas prices moved higher on a sharp decline in inventories during the unusually cold winter months. The PCE price index for items excluding food and energy rose at the same rate in the first quarter as in the previous one and was around 1-1/4 percent higher than four quarters earlier. Both near- and longer-term inflation expectations from the Michigan survey were unchanged in March and April. Over the 12 months ending in March, both the employment cost index for private-sector workers and average hourly earnings for all employees increased only a little more than consumer price inflation.

Indicators of foreign economic activity suggested continued expansion in the first quarter but at a rate somewhat below that in the fourth quarter. The deceleration was concentrated in emerging market economies (EMEs). Real GDP growth slowed markedly in China, largely reflecting lower investment growth and exports. Weaker exports also restrained economic activity in other emerging Asian economies. In Mexico, indicators of activity suggested some improvement from a lackluster fourth quarter. By contrast, economic growth remained near its solid fourth-quarter pace in the advanced foreign economies (AFEs). In the euro area, the United Kingdom, and Canada, average industrial production in the first two months of the year was up moderately from the fourth quarter; in Japan, industrial production rose robustly, and consumer demand was boosted by anticipation of the April increase in the consumption tax. Inflation developments were mixed. Inflation rebounded in Canada but remained very low in the euro area. In China and India, inflation fell in the first quarter, largely because of lower food prices. Monetary policy remained highly accommodative during the intermeeting period in the AFEs and also in many EMEs, although monetary policy in Brazil was tightened to contain inflation pressures.