In the Committee's discussion of monetary policy for the intermeeting period, all members favored raising the target federal funds rate 25 basis points to 4-1/4 percent. With spending apparently retaining considerable momentum, and with the indirect effects of increased energy prices still threatening to raise core inflation at least for a time, the Committee thought that additional policy firming at this meeting was appropriate to keep inflation and inflation expectations in check. Committee members generally anticipated that policy would likely need to be firmed further going forward. In that process, the Committee would need to be mindful of the lags in the effect of policy firming on the economy. However, it would also have to take account of the effects of the sustained period of favorable financial conditions on asset prices and aggregate demand as well as the resulting possibility of further increases in resource utilization and pressures on prices. Views differed on how much further tightening might be required. Because the Committee's actions over the past eighteen months had significantly reduced the degree of monetary policy accommodation, members thought that the policy outlook was becoming considerably less certain and that policy decisions going forward would depend to an increased extent on the implications of incoming economic data for future growth and inflation.

The Committee agreed that several changes in the wording of the announcement to be released after today's meeting would be appropriate. The federal funds rate had been boosted substantially, and, in the view of some members, it was now likely within a broad range of values that might turn out to be consistent with output remaining close to potential. In these circumstances, the Committee thought that policy should no longer be characterized as accommodative. Members concurred that the statement should note that the expansion remained solid despite elevated energy prices and hurricane-related disruptions. While inflation and long-term inflation expectations remained contained, the Committee agreed that the announcement should indicate that possible increases in resource utilization, as well as elevated energy prices, had the potential to add to inflation pressures and that "some further measured policy firming is likely to be needed to keep the risks to the attainment of both sustainable economic growth and price stability roughly in balance." Although future action would depend on the incoming data, this characterization of the outlook for policy was seen by most members as indicating that, given the information now in hand, the number of additional firming steps required probably would not be large. Some members thought that the word "measured" was no longer necessary, but its retention for this meeting was seen as potentially useful to preclude a possible misinterpretation that the Committee now saw a significant possibility of adjusting policy in larger increments in the near future. Wording of the announcement along these lines was not expected to have a substantial effect on market expectations for policy, though such effects were especially difficult to judge given the extensive changes being made to the statement. The members agreed that the announcement should end by noting that policy will respond to changes in economic prospects as needed to foster the Committee's objectives.

At the conclusion of the discussion, the Committee voted to authorize and direct the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, until it was instructed otherwise, to execute transactions in the System Account in accordance with the following domestic policy directive:

"The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions that will foster price stability and promote sustainable growth in output. To further its long-run objectives, the Committee in the immediate future seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with increasing the federal funds rate to an average of around 4-1/4 percent."
The vote encompassed approval of the paragraph below for inclusion in the statement to be released shortly after the meeting:

"The Committee judges that some further measured policy firming is likely to be needed to keep the risks to the attainment of both sustainable economic growth and price stability roughly in balance. In any event, the Committee will respond to changes in economic prospects as needed to foster these objectives."
Votes for this action: Messrs. Greenspan and Geithner, Ms. Bies, Messrs. Ferguson, Fisher, Kohn, Olson, Moskow, Santomero, and Stern.

Votes against this action: None

It was agreed that the next meeting of the Committee would be held on Tuesday, January 31, 2006.

The meeting adjourned at 1:00 p.m.

Notation Vote
By notation vote completed on November 21, 2005, the Committee unanimously approved the minutes of the meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee held on November 1, 2005.