In their discussion of the economic situation and outlook, meeting participants noted that incoming data over the intermeeting period had been encouraging with regard to both economic growth and inflation. The economic expansion had shown considerable resilience in the face of higher energy prices and hurricane-related disruptions, suggesting greater underlying strength than had been apparent at the time of the November meeting. At the same time, incoming inflation data had been benign, indicating relatively modest pass-through of higher energy prices to core inflation to date; subdued gains in compensation and strong growth in productivity were holding down business costs; and inflation expectations, which had jumped after the hurricanes, had fallen back. Nonetheless, with growth solid and prices of energy products still well above levels earlier in the year, possible increases in resource utilization had the potential to add to pressures on prices, especially in the absence of some further firming of policy.

In their discussion of major sectors of the economy, meeting participants noted that, while light vehicle sales had slowed in the fall, consumer spending outside the auto sector appeared to have remained vigorous. Holiday sales were said to be off to a good start in many parts of the country. The substantial recovery in measures of consumer confidence after their sharp declines in the aftermath of the hurricanes had reduced meeting participants' concerns about a significant pull-back in spending. Going forward, consumer outlays were expected to be supported by further advances in employment and income.

Meeting participants discussed tentative signs that activity was beginning to slow in the housing sector. Reports from contacts in many parts of the country suggested somewhat less ebullient market conditions, and measures of confidence of homebuyers and builders had fallen back noticeably. A downshift in attitudes regarding the outlook for the housing sector could have significant market effects, in part by damping the demand for houses by investors and speculators. A slowing of house price increases, by restraining the expansion of consumption, and a moderation in the pace of new building were expected to reduce the growth of aggregate demand somewhat in coming quarters. To date, however, the national data on home prices, sales, and construction activity did not suggest a significant weakening in the sector.

Business investment spending had accelerated some since midyear. In part, the pickup may have reflected an increase in business confidence as the economy proved resilient in the face of this year's substantial adverse shocks. Participants noted that the improved performance of investment suggested that the expansion was becoming more balanced, with strengthening business spending potentially offsetting some moderation in the growth of household spending from the elevated rates of recent years.

Economic activity also could be buoyed by developments in other sectors of the economy. Increased federal government outlays were expected to boost output a little next year. Supportive financial conditions and an apparent increase in confidence had contributed to a pickup in growth abroad. Despite possible firming of monetary policy by some foreign central banks and the rise in the foreign exchange value of the dollar owing to global demands for dollar assets, a good portion of the recent strength in foreign economic growth was expected to persist and provide support for U.S. exports.

In their discussion of prices, participants indicated that their concerns about near-term inflation pressures had eased somewhat over the intermeeting period. Recent data suggested that, thus far, indirect effects of elevated energy prices on core inflation had been muted. Moreover, energy prices generally had fallen back on balance since earlier in the fall, and much of the increases in inflation expectations posted in the aftermath of the hurricanes had reversed. Participants noted that robust competition--including that from foreign producers--and further substantial gains in productivity were helping to contain cost and price pressures. Moreover, measures of labor compensation showed only moderate gains while relatively wide profit margins could allow firms to absorb somewhat larger increases in labor and other costs without boosting prices. Nonetheless, surveys and anecdotal reports suggested that some firms were successfully passing at least a portion of their increased costs on to customers, and many participants remained concerned that elevated energy prices could put pressure on core inflation. Also, in the view of a number of participants, the economy was possibly producing in the neighborhood of its potential, and the persistent strength in spending of late suggested that resource markets could tighten further and inflation pressures build. Under these circumstances, and with policy having been accommodative for some time, inflation expectations could rise if monetary policy were not seen as responding to contain such risks.