At its meeting on February 1-2, 2000, the Committee adopted a directive that called for a slight tightening of conditions in reserve markets consistent with an increase of ¼ percentage point in the federal funds rate to an average of about 5-3/4 percent. The members agreed that this action was needed to help bring the growth of aggregate demand into better alignment with the expansion of potential aggregate supply and thereby help avert rising inflationary pressures. The members also agreed that the risks remained weighted mainly in the direction of greater inflation pressures and that further tightening actions might be necessary to bring about financial conditions that were sufficiently firm to contain upward pressures on labor costs and prices.

Open market operations during the intermeeting period were directed toward implementing the desired slightly greater pressure on reserve positions, and the federal funds rate averaged very close to the Committee's 5-3/4 percent target. The Committee's action and its announcement that the risks were weighted in the direction of rising inflation were widely anticipated and had little immediate effect on market yields. Subsequently, market rates moved up in response to the receipt of data that signaled persisting strength of the economy, but they turned back down in response to new information indicating continued low inflation and to greater volatility in equity prices. On balance over the intermeeting period, interest rates on private instruments registered small mixed changes while yields on longer-term Treasury securities declined significantly. Most major indexes of equity prices moved up appreciably on net over the intermeeting period.

In foreign exchange markets, the trade-weighted value of the dollar changed little over the intermeeting period against a basket of major currencies. The dollar rose against the Australian dollar, British pound, Canadian dollar, and the euro as investors apparently revised down their expectations of the extent of monetary tightening in those countries. By contrast, the dollar declined against the Japanese yen and the currencies of a number of other important trading partners, notably the Mexican peso and the Brazilian real.

The growth of M2 and M3 slowed in February, partly reflecting an unwinding of Y2K effects and rising opportunity costs of holding liquid balances. In addition, the surging prices of technology-related equities might have spurred depositors to shift some of their M2 balances into equity mutual funds. The growth of total domestic nonfinancial debt slowed early in the year as large federal debt paydowns resumed following the sharp buildup of Treasury balances prior to year-end.