The Committee then turned to a discussion of the economic and financial outlook and the implementation of monetary policy over the intermeeting period ahead.

The information reviewed at this meeting suggested that the expansion of economic activity remained rapid. Consumer spending and business fixed investment were still trending upward strongly, and housing demand was holding at a high level. Although the growth in domestic demand was being met partly through rising imports, industrial production and nonfarm payrolls were expanding briskly. Labor markets continued to be very tight, but there were few signs of any acceleration in labor costs. Price inflation was still moderate, except for the upturn in energy prices in recent months.

Labor demand remained robust in January and February, with the average increase in private nonfarm payroll employment over the two months only a little below the strong pace of 1999. Job growth in manufacturing and construction was solid, while hiring in the services sector slowed appreciably. The civilian unemployment rate, at 4.1 percent in February, was just above its 1999 low, and initial claims for unemployment insurance were at an extremely low level in early March.

Industrial production was up sharply in the early months of the year, reflecting large gains in the manufacturing and utilities sectors. Within manufacturing, output of high-tech equipment was notably strong, but production of motor vehicles and parts also recorded a sizable advance on balance over the January-February period. By contrast, output of aircraft and parts weakened again. The continuing strength in manufacturing lifted the factory operating rate further, but capacity utilization stayed a little below its long-term average.

Retail sales continued to increase rapidly in January and February against the backdrop of strong growth in disposable income and household wealth and elevated consumer confidence. Sales of light vehicles surged over the January-February period. Purchases of goods other than motor vehicles picked up substantially further, with gains widespread across most major categories. Outlays for services rose briskly in January (latest data); part of the gain resulted from higher spending for heating as temperatures in many parts of the country dropped to more seasonable levels.

Residential housing activity remained strong in the first two months of the year. Total private housing starts in January and February held at the high December level, as a surge in starts of multifamily units offset a downturn in starts of single-family homes. The demand for housing, associated with continuing gains in jobs and incomes, had remained ebullient despite an appreciable increase in mortgage rates. Although sales of new single-family homes fell in January (latest data), the decline followed a December pace that was the highest monthly rate in more than twenty years. Sales of existing homes also declined in January, continuing a trend that had begun last July, but inventories of existing homes for sale evidently were at very low levels.

Business spending on durable equipment and software and on nonresidential structures increased sharply in January. Shipments of computing and communications equipment surged after the century rollover, and shipments of other non-aircraft goods rose moderately. Deliveries of aircraft continued to be held down by the labor strike at Boeing. The recent strength in orders for many types of equipment pointed to further advances in spending in coming months. Expenditures for nonresidential structures turned up last autumn and rose rapidly in January. Office and other commercial construction activity was robust, while industrial building was little changed.

The pace of accumulation of manufacturing and trade inventories slowed somewhat in January from the elevated rate in the fourth quarter; however, sales grew briskly and the aggregate inventory-sales ratio edged down from an already very low level. In manufacturing, stocks increased moderately further in January; however, shipments grew by more, and the aggregate stock-shipments ratio for the sector declined to a new low. Both wholesale and retail inventories increased in line with sales, and inventory-sales ratios for these sectors stayed at the bottom of their respective ranges over the past twelve months.

The U.S. trade deficit in goods and services climbed to a new high in January, with the value of exports retreating from the peak reached in December and the value of imports rising sharply. The drop in exports was concentrated in computers, semiconductors, aircraft, chemicals, and consumer goods, while the increase in imports was primarily in oil and automotive products. The available information suggested that economic expansion continued to be robust in most foreign industrial economies. The Japanese economy was still the notable exception, though some favorable signs were evident. Economic activity in the developing countries also picked up further, with Asian countries registering the largest gains.

Price inflation had remained moderate in recent months, with the exception of higher energy prices. Consumer prices jumped in February as energy prices surged. Abstracting from energy prices, however, consumer price inflation was moderate in January and February. Moreover, the increase in consumer prices of items other than food and energy during the twelve months ended in February was the same as the change during the previous twelve-month period. At the producer level, prices of finished goods other than food and energy changed little in January and February, and their rise during the twelve months ended in February was somewhat smaller than the advance during the previous twelve-month period. At earlier stages of processing, however, producer prices registered somewhat larger increases than those for finished goods in both the January-February period and the twelve months ended in February. With regard to labor costs, average hourly earnings grew at a slightly faster rate in January and February than they had in the fourth quarter of last year. However, the advance in this earnings measure in the twelve months ended in February was about the same as that in the previous twelve-month period.