The principal effect of the expanded collateral authorized last August, together with the use of tri-party repurchase agreements, was to allow passthrough mortgage securities of GNMA, FNMA, and FHLMC and "stripped" securities of the U.S. Treasury and federal government agencies to be taken as collateral for repurchase transactions. Direct Treasury obligations remained the preferred means for meeting the System's needs, but anticipated paydowns of marketable federal debt associated with projected budget surpluses were likely to limit the System's ability in the future to continue to add substantially to holdings, even on a temporary basis, without generating undesirable market repercussions.

In this setting, the Manager recommended that a broad-gauge study be undertaken to consider alternative asset classes and selection criteria that could be appropriate for the System Open Market Account (SOMA), with particular attention to alternatives to the current reliance on net additions to outright holdings of Treasury securities as the sole means of effectuating the upward trend in the asset side of the System's balance sheet.

Pending the completion of that study and the Committee's consideration of alternative asset allocations, the Manager suggested that the Desk could rely on temporary operations with relatively long maturities to meet the growth in underlying reserve needs that could not comfortably be met by further outright purchases of Treasury securities. In implementing these temporary operations, the Manager expressed a preference to distribute the System's demand for collateral as broadly as possible in order to minimize the impact on spread relationships in the financing market. This preference motivated his recommendation to extend temporarily the authority to operate in the broader range of collateral.

The required size of the longer-term temporary operations would depend on how much of the permanent reserve need could be met by outright purchases of Treasury securities. The Manager noted that the desirability of maintaining a liquid bill portfolio suggested that System holdings of any bill issue should be limited to 35-40 percent of the outstanding amount. With issue sizes declining, such limits might mean that from time to time some portion of the System's maturing bill holdings would be redeemed rather than rolled over in Treasury auctions. The Manager also intended to roll over maturing holdings of Treasury coupon issues in auctions and to add to the System's portfolio to meet permanent reserve needs by purchasing coupon securities in the secondary market. However, the amount that could be added through outright purchases without disturbing the Treasury market would have to be gauged over time relative to conditions in the market as Treasury issuance patterns evolved in response to System purchases and Treasury buybacks of coupon securities.

All the members endorsed the proposal for a study of the issues associated with the System's asset allocation in light of declining Treasury debt. They noted that the requested temporary expansion of authority, pending the Committee's consideration of the completed study, should not be read as indicating in any way how the Committee might ultimately choose to allocate the portfolio, and any interim operations in the broader range of collateral should be capable of being unwound without adverse market consequences.

The Committee also accepted a proposal by the Manager to make permanent the authority to use reverse repurchase agreements in the conduct of open market operations. Such agreements are equivalent to matched sale-purchase transactions, which the Manager has long been authorized to use, but reverse RPs have the advantage of much greater flexibility because they are the common practice in financial markets. The Manager indicated that he did not expect to use reverse RPs on a regular basis until the System's new trading system became operational, but in conjunction with existing tri-party arrangements there might be occasions in the interim when the timing of open market operations would make it desirable to use them instead of matched sale-purchase transactions. The members voted unanimously to adopt on a permanent basis, subject to the annual review required for all the Committee's instruments, paragraph 1 (c) of the Authorization for Domestic Open Market Operations in the form reproduced below.

The Federal Open Market Committee authorizes and directs the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, to the extent necessary to carry out the most recent domestic policy directive adopted at a meeting of the Committee:
(c) To sell U.S. Government securities and securities that are direct obligations of, or fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by, any agency of the United States to dealers for System Open Market Account under agreements for the resale by dealers of such securities or obligations in 90 calendar days or less, at rates that, unless otherwise expressly authorized by the Committee, shall be determined by competitive bidding, after applying reasonable limitations on the volume of agreements with individual dealers.

In the Committee's discussion of current and prospective economic developments, members commented, as they had at earlier meetings, that they saw little evidence of any slowing in the rapid expansion of domestic economic activity, but they also saw few signs to date of significant acceleration in inflation. The growth in aggregate demand continued to display remarkable vigor, evidently driven by high levels of consumer and business confidence and accommodative financial markets. Large increases in imports were helping to satisfy the impressive growth in demand. At the same time, aggregate supply also continued to record strong gains amid indications of further acceleration in productivity. Looking ahead, however, members reiterated earlier concerns that aggregate demand could continue to grow faster than potential aggregate supply, even under optimistic assumptions regarding future productivity gains. Contributing to that continuing imbalance, the strengthening of most foreign industrial economies and the diminishing effects of the earlier appreciation of the dollar were likely to boost further foreign demand for U.S. output. The experience of recent years amply demonstrated, however, that the extent to which prospective growth in demand might exceed further expansion in the economy's potential and the implications for inflation were subject to a wide range of uncertainty as to both degree and timing. Nonetheless, given the persistence of rapid growth in aggregate demand beyond growth in aggregate supply and very tight conditions in labor markets, the members continued to be concerned about the risks of rising inflation.

In their comments about economic conditions across the nation, members referred to anecdotal and other evidence of widespread strength in business activity, which in many areas appeared to be rising appreciably further from already high levels. Agriculture continued to be a notable exception, though members also reported signs of softening in housing and other construction activity in some areas. With regard to developments in key sectors of the economy, consumer spending had remained particularly robust thus far this year according to reports from most parts of the nation. Some moderation in such spending to a pace more in line with the growth in household incomes was cited as a reasonable expectation, given underlying factors such as the large buildup of durable goods in consumer hands, the rise in consumer debt loads, and the effects of higher oil prices. Of key importance was the prospective performance of the stock market, whose robust gains in recent years had undoubtedly boosted consumer confidence and spending. The members noted that equity prices generally had posted further gains during the intermeeting period, but in their view the large increases of recent years were not likely to be repeated, and an absence of such gains would have a restraining effect on consumer expenditures over time. Even so, further increases in household incomes along with the lagged wealth effects of the sharp earlier advances in stock market prices seemed likely to sustain relatively strong consumer spending for some period of time.

After moderating toward the end of 1999, in part because of caution ahead of the century date change, business fixed investment again appeared to be expanding at a vigorous pace. The advance included not only notable strength in the high-tech sector but brisk spending in a number of other areas as well. Factors underlying business optimism included robust growth in revenues and profits and the ready availability of both debt and equity financing. The divergence, at least until recently, in the stock market between the valuations of high-tech firms and those of more traditional, established firms was inducing a redirection of investment funds to business activities that were perceived to be more productive. While the associated capital investments undoubtedly had contributed to the acceleration in productivity, some members expressed concern that the historically elevated valuations of many high-tech stocks were subject to a sizable market adjustment at some point. That risk was underscored by the increased volatility of the stock market.

In the housing sector, building activity generally remained at a high level, though slipping a bit in some parts of the country, and there were only limited indications that the rise in mortgage interest rates was holding down residential construction. On the other hand, housing and other construction activity reportedly was being retarded by shortages of labor and, in some areas, of materials as well. On balance, recent developments did not augur any significant changes in homebuilding.

The improved economic outlook for most of the nation's important trading partners, in association with the fading effects of the dollar's earlier appreciation, pointed to faster expansion in exports and recent anecdotal reports were broadly consistent with such a development. Growth in imports was expected to moderate over time, though imports currently were still rising rapidly. Even so, prospective developments in the foreign trade sector were not likely to provide much relief to demand pressures on the U.S. economy.

With regard to the outlook for inflation, members saw little evidence to date of any acceleration in core inflation, and unit costs for nonfinancial corporations were unchanged in the fourth quarter. Despite such welcome developments, members expressed concern about indications of a less benign inflation climate. The direct and indirect effects of higher fuel prices, the rise in other import prices, increasing medical costs, and some deterioration in surveys of inflation expectations could begin to show through to higher underlying inflation. More fundamentally, however, the members believed that current growth in aggregate demand, should it persist, would continue to exceed the expansion of potential output and, by putting added pressure on already tight labor markets, would at some point foster inflationary imbalances that would undermine the economic expansion.

In the Committee's discussion of policy for the intermeeting period ahead, all the members endorsed a proposal to tighten reserve conditions by a slight amount consistent with an increase in the federal funds rate to a level of 6 percent. Persisting strength in aggregate domestic demand had been accommodated thus far without a pickup in underlying inflation because of the remarkable acceleration in productivity and because of two safety valves--the economy's ability to draw on the pool of available workers and to finance the rapid growth in imports relative to exports. However, a further acceleration in productivity was unlikely to boost the economy's growth potential sufficiently to satisfy the expansion in aggregate demand without some slowing in the latter. In addition, the two safety valves could not be counted on to work indefinitely. In these circumstances, the members saw substantial risks of rising pressures on labor and other resources and of higher inflation that called for some further firming of monetary policy at this meeting. They agreed, though, that because a significant acceleration in inflation did not appear to be imminent and because uncertainties continued to surround the economic outlook, a gradual approach to policy adjustments was warranted. Some members commented that, although a more forceful policy move of 50 basis points might be needed at some point, measured and predictable policy tightening moves, such as the one contemplated today, still were desirable in current circumstances, which included somewhat unsettled financial markets.

Looking ahead, the Committee would continue to assess the need for further tightening to contain inflation. Even after taking account of the lagged effects of the considerable tightening that already had been implemented since mid-1999, additional tightening might well be needed to ensure that financial conditions would adjust sufficiently to bring aggregate demand into better balance with potential supply and thereby counter a possible escalation of pressures on labor costs and prices. The members agreed that the press statement to be issued shortly after this meeting should continue to highlight their view that even after today's tightening move the risks would remain tilted toward heightened inflation pressures.