Over the intermeeting period, longer-term Treasury yields increased notably amid heightened volatility, apparently boosted by a rise in yields on core euro-area sovereign bonds and, to a lesser extent, stronger-than-anticipated news about the U.S. labor market late in the period. The sharp rise in yields on core euro-area sovereign bonds seemed to reflect a notable rise in term premiums from significantly compressed levels as well as an increase in the path of expected future short-term rates following some positive data for the European economy.

The nominal Treasury yield curve steepened appreciably, on net, with 2-, 5-, and 10-year yields ending the intermeeting period about 15 to 35 basis points higher. Most of the increase in nominal yields was attributable to a rise in real yields, as measures of inflation compensation were relatively stable.

Various measures typically used to assess liquidity in Treasury and mortgage-backed securities (MBS) markets were little changed over the intermeeting period; they have generally pointed to relatively stable market functioning over the past several years. However, the majority of respondents to the June Senior Credit Officer Opinion Survey on Dealer Financing Terms indicated that, over the past five years, liquidity and functioning in these markets, especially in Treasury markets, have deteriorated. Respondents attributed the deterioration primarily to securities dealers' decreased willingness to provide balance sheet resources for market making as a result of both regulatory changes and changes in internal risk-management practices.

On balance, the expected path of the federal funds rate implied by futures contracts steepened noticeably beyond 2015, with a portion of this shift coming after the May employment report. Some evidence suggested that a significant part of the increase may have reflected higher term premiums. By contrast, Federal Reserve communications following the April FOMC meeting were characterized by investors as generally in line with expectations and elicited limited market reaction.

Results from the June Survey of Primary Dealers and the June Survey of Market Participants indicated little change since the April survey in modal forecasts of the federal funds rate through 2018. Respondents again saw the September 2015 FOMC meeting as the most likely time for the first increase in the target range for the federal funds rate. The expected pace of tightening after the initial increase in the target range for the federal funds rate, whenever that might occur, was similar to that reported in the April survey.

Over the intermeeting period, most broad U.S. equity price indexes moved down a bit, on net, amid mixed macroeconomic news and little information on earnings. Option-implied volatility on the S&P 500 index over the next month increased, on balance, but remained near the lower end of its historical range. Spreads on 10-year triple-B-rated corporate bonds over comparable-maturity Treasury securities widened somewhat, on net, while spreads on speculative-grade corporate bonds narrowed slightly.

Financing conditions for large nonfinancial businesses continued to be accommodative. Gross corporate bond issuance remained quite strong, and institutional leveraged loan issuance picked up significantly. Commercial and industrial loans on banks' balance sheets continued to increase at a solid pace. Meanwhile, financing conditions for small businesses continued to improve, though the growth of small business loans on banks' books remained subdued, partly reflecting still-tepid demand for credit from owners of small businesses.

Financing for commercial real estate remained broadly available, although the expansion of commercial real estate loans on banks' books slowed in April and May, reportedly because of sales of loans secured by nonfarm nonresidential properties into pools of commercial mortgage-backed securities. Measures of residential mortgage credit availability continued to improve gradually over the intermeeting period. Nevertheless, credit remained tight for borrowers with lower credit scores. Interest rates on 30-year fixed-rate mortgages increased about 30 basis points, broadly in line with MBS yields and other longer-term rates. Financing conditions in consumer credit markets stayed accommodative in March and April. Auto and student loans expanded at a robust pace through April, while revolving credit picked up in March and April after a slow start at the beginning of the year.

Sovereign bond yields in foreign economies rose notably during the intermeeting period, especially in the advanced economies, led by a substantial increase in German bund yields. A number of factors may have contributed to the increase in yields, including a reappraisal of term premiums, which appeared to have fallen to very low levels in April. The rise in yields was also supported by the release of some stronger-than-expected inflation data in the euro area and by European Central Bank communications that volatility in yields was to be expected. Against this backdrop and with a step-up in concerns about developments in Greece, equity prices declined in most countries. Stock prices in Japan and especially in China were the main exceptions. The foreign exchange value of the dollar increased a bit, on balance, during the intermeeting period against the currencies of major U.S. trading partners. While the dollar declined against the euro and other European currencies, it rose against the Canadian dollar, the yen, and many emerging market currencies, boosted in part by the strong U.S. employment report for May.