The information reviewed for the June 16-17 meeting suggested that real gross domestic product (GDP) was increasing moderately in the second quarter after edging down in the first quarter. Labor market conditions improved somewhat further in recent months. Consumer price inflation continued to run below the FOMC's longer-run objective of 2 percent and was restrained significantly by earlier declines in energy prices and decreases in prices of non-energy imports. Survey measures of longer‑run inflation expectations remained stable, while market-based measures of inflation compensation were still low.

Total nonfarm payroll employment expanded at a faster pace in April and May than in the first quarter. The unemployment rate was 5.5 percent in May, about the same as its first-quarter average. The labor force participation rate and the employment-to-population ratio rose a bit over April and May, and the share of workers employed part time for economic reasons edged down on net. The rate of private-sector job openings moved up a little, on balance, in March and April, while the rates of hiring and quits were essentially unchanged.

Industrial production decreased during April and May after declining in the first quarter. The output of both the manufacturing and mining sectors fell over the past two months, likely reflecting the continuing effects of earlier increases in the foreign exchange value of the dollar and lower crude oil prices. Automakers' assembly schedules suggested that light motor vehicle production would increase at a solid pace in the near term, but broader indicators of manufacturing production, such as the readings on new orders from national and regional manufacturing surveys, generally pointed to modest gains in factory output in the coming months.

Growth in real personal consumption expenditures (PCE) appeared to pick up early in the second quarter from its modest pace in the previous quarter. The components of the nominal retail sales data used by the Bureau of Economic Analysis to construct its estimate of PCE increased in May, and the data for sales in the previous two months were revised up. Sales of light motor vehicles were much higher in May than in April. Among the factors that influence household spending, real disposable income rose in April and gains in households' net worth were supported by further advances in home values. Moreover, consumer sentiment in the University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers in early June remained near its highest level since prior to the most recent recession.

Activity in the housing sector improved somewhat in recent months but continued to be slow. Starts and building permits of both new single-family homes and multifamily units increased, on balance, in April and May. Sales of new homes rose in April; existing home sales moved down, although pending home sales increased.

Growth in real private expenditures for business equipment and intellectual property products appeared to remain relatively slow in the second quarter. Nominal shipments of nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft rose in April. Forward-looking indicators, such as new orders for these capital goods along with national and regional surveys of business conditions, pointed to only modest increases in business equipment spending in the near term. Firms' nominal spending for nonresidential structures excluding drilling and mining rose in April. In contrast, the number of oil rigs in operation continued to fall through early June, suggesting a further decline in real business spending for drilling and mining structures in the second quarter.

Nominal federal spending data for April and May pointed toward a further decline in real federal government purchases in the second quarter. Real state and local government purchases appeared to be rising in the second quarter, with increases in both payrolls and nominal construction spending in recent months.

The U.S. international trade deficit widened substantially in March but narrowed in April, leaving the deficit modestly wider than in February. After decreasing for four straight months, exports increased in both March and April, as shipments to Asia picked up following the resolution in February of labor disputes at West Coast ports. Imports rebounded in March from the depressed levels in January and February but fell back in April, close to the first-quarter average. While real net exports made a large negative contribution to the change in real GDP in the first quarter of 2015, April data suggested that net exports might be a considerably smaller drag on GDP growth in the second quarter of the year.

Total U.S. consumer prices, as measured by the PCE price index, only edged up over the 12 months ending in April, held down primarily by earlier large declines in energy prices. Core PCE inflation, which excludes food and energy prices, was 1-1/4 percent over the same 12-month period, restrained in part by declines in the prices of non-energy imports. Measures of expected longer-run inflation from a number of surveys, including the Michigan survey, the Survey of Professional Forecasters, and the Desk's Survey of Primary Dealers, remained stable. However, market-based measures of inflation compensation were still low, although somewhat higher than early in the year. Measures of labor compensation rose at moderate rates, outpacing the rise in consumer prices over the past year. The employment cost index increased 2-3/4 percent over the four quarters ending in the first quarter, while compensation per hour in the nonfarm business sector rose 1-3/4 percent over the same period. Average hourly earnings for all employees increased 2-1/4 percent over the 12 months ending in May. There were some tentative signs that these labor compensation measures were accelerating a little in the first quarter.

Economic growth in many foreign economies slowed in the first quarter. Real GDP contracted in Canada, where lower oil prices depressed investment, and in Brazil, where business and consumer confidence weakened and high inflation prompted a significant tightening of monetary policy. In addition, real GDP growth slowed in China and Mexico. By contrast, the euro-area economy continued its recovery, and real GDP growth in Japan increased sharply. Inflation rates turned positive in recent months in many foreign economies following the trough in oil prices earlier this year.