In the U.S. economic forecast prepared for the September FOMC meeting, real GDP was projected to increase in the second half of this year at a rate that was just a little slower than in the first half of the year. The staff's preliminary assessment was that the effects of Hurricane Florence would lead to a slight reduction in real GDP growth in the third quarter and a small addition to growth in the fourth quarter as economic activity returned to more normal levels and some disrupted activity was made up. Over the 2018-20 period, output was projected to rise at a rate above or at the staff's estimate of potential growth and then slow to a pace below it in 2021. The unemployment rate was projected to decline further below the staff's estimate of its longer-run natural rate but to bottom out in 2020 and begin to edge up in 2021. Relative to the forecast prepared for the previous meeting, the projection for real GDP growth this year was revised up a little, primarily in response to stronger-than-expected incoming data on household spending and business investment. The projection for the medium term was not materially changed, in part because the recently enacted tariffs on Chinese goods and the retaliatory actions of China were judged to have only a small net effect on U.S. real GDP growth over the next few years. In addition, the staff continued to anticipate that supply constraints might restrain output growth somewhat in the medium term. The unemployment rate was projected to be a little lower over the medium term than in the previous forecast, partly in response to the staff's assessment that the natural rate of unemployment was a bit lower than previously assumed. With labor market conditions already tight, the staff continued to assume that projected employment gains would manifest in smaller-than-usual downward pressure on the unemployment rate and in larger-than-usual upward pressure on the labor force participation rate.

The staff forecast for total PCE price inflation in 2018 was revised up slightly, mainly because of a faster-than-expected increase in consumer energy prices in the second half. The staff continued to project that total PCE inflation would remain near the Committee's 2 percent objective over the medium term and that core PCE price inflation would run slightly higher than total inflation over that period because of a projected decline in consumer energy prices in 2019 through 2021.

The staff viewed the uncertainty around its projections for real GDP growth, the unemployment rate, and inflation as similar to the average of the past 20 years. The staff also saw the risks to the forecasts for real GDP growth and the unemployment rate as balanced. On the upside, household spending and business investment could expand faster than the staff projected, supported in part by the tax cuts enacted last year. On the down-side, trade policies and foreign economic developments could move in directions that have significant negative effects on U.S. economic growth. Risks to the inflation projection also were seen as balanced. The upside risk that inflation could increase more than expected in an economy that was projected to move further above its potential was counterbalanced by the downside risk that longer-term inflation expectations may be lower than was assumed in the staff forecast.