Nominal Treasury yields increased over the intermeeting period, as market reactions to domestic economic data releases that were, on balance, slightly stronger than expected appeared to outweigh ongoing concerns about trade policy and negative developments in some EMEs. FOMC communications over the period were largely in line with expectations and elicited little market reaction. Domestic stock prices rose, buoyed in part by positive news about corporate earnings, while foreign equity indexes declined and the broad dollar index moved up. Financing conditions for nonfinancial businesses and households remained supportive of economic activity on balance.

Global financial markets were volatile during the inter-meeting period amid significant stress in some EMEs, ongoing focus on Brexit and on fiscal policy in Italy, and continued trade tensions. On balance, the dollar was little changed against AFE currencies and appreciated against EME currencies, as financial pressures on some EMEs weighed on broader risk sentiment. Turkey and Argentina experienced significant stress, and other countries with similar macroeconomic vulnerabilities also came under pressure. There were small outflows from dedicated emerging market funds, and EME sovereign bond spreads widened. Trade tensions weighed on foreign equity prices, as the United States continued its trade negotiations with Canada and placed additional tariffs on Chinese products.

FOMC communications elicited limited price reactions in financial markets over the intermeeting period, and market-implied measures of monetary policy expectations were little changed. The probability of an increase in the target range for the federal funds rate occurring at the September FOMC meeting, as implied by quotes on the federal funds futures contracts, increased to near certainty. The market-implied probability of an additional rate increase at the December FOMC meeting rose to about 75 percent. The market-implied path for the federal funds rate beyond 2018 increased a touch.

Evolving trade-related risks and other international developments reportedly weighed somewhat on market sentiment. However, domestic economic data releases came in a bit above market expectations, on net, with the stronger-than-expected average hourly earnings in the August employment report notably boosting Treasury yields. Nominal Treasury yields moved up over the intermeeting period, with the 10-year yield rising above 3 percent. Measures of inflation compensation derived from Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities over the next 5 years ticked up and were little changed 5 to 10 years ahead.

Broad U.S. equity price indexes increased about 4 percent since the August FOMC meeting, as positive news about corporate earnings and the domestic economy outweighed negative international developments. Stock prices increased for many sectors in the S&P 500 index, as the second-quarter earnings reports for firms that reported later in the earnings cycle came in strong. However, concerns about economic prospects abroad--particularly with respect to trade policy and China--appeared to weigh on stocks in the energy and basic materials sectors, which declined. Option-implied volatility on the S&P 500 index at the one-month horizon--the VIX--moved down but remained somewhat above the extremely low levels seen in late 2017. Spreads of investment- and speculative-grade corporate bond yields over comparablematurity Treasury yields narrowed a bit on net.

Short-term funding markets functioned smoothly over the intermeeting period. An elevated level of Treasury bills outstanding, following heavy issuance this summer, continued to put upward pressure on money market rates and reduced the attractiveness of the Federal Reserve's ON RRP facility. Take-up at the facility averaged $2.9 billion per day over the intermeeting period. Spreads of unsecured funding rates over comparable-maturity OIS rates continued to retrace the rise in spreads recorded earlier this year.

On balance, financing conditions for large nonfinancial firms remained accommodative in recent months. Demand for corporate borrowing appeared to have declined, in part because of strong earnings, rising interest rates, and seasonal factors. In July and August, gross issuance of corporate bonds was relatively weak, while commercial and industrial loan growth moderated. Meanwhile, the pace of equity issuance was solid in July but fell in August, reflecting seasonal factors. Financing conditions for small businesses remained favorable, and survey-based measures of credit demand among small business owners showed signs of strengthening, although demand was still weak relative to pre-crisis levels. Gross issuance of municipal bonds continued to be solid.

In the commercial real estate (CRE) sector, financing conditions also remained accommodative. Although CRE loan growth at banks moderated in July and August, issuance of commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS) was robust. CMBS spreads were little changed over the intermeeting period and stayed near their post-crisis lows.

Residential mortgage financing conditions remained accommodative on balance. For borrowers with low credit scores, however, conditions were still somewhat tight despite continued easing in credit availability. Refinancing activity continued to be muted in recent months, and the growth in purchase mortgage originations slowed a bit relative to year-earlier levels, in part reflecting the notable increase in mortgage rates earlier this year.

On net, financing conditions in consumer credit markets were little changed in recent months and remained largely supportive of growth in household spending. However, the supply of credit to consumers with sub-prime credit scores remained tight. More broadly, although interest rates for credit cards and auto loans continued to rise, consumer credit expanded at a solid pace.