The manager of the System Open Market Account (SOMA) discussed U.S. and global financial developments. In global markets, strains in emerging market economies (EMEs) contributed to volatility in currency and equity markets over the period. In addition, concerns about trade tensions between the United States and China were the focus of a great deal of attention among market participants. Such concerns led the Shanghai Composite index to drop as much as 8 percent at one point over the intermeeting period before recovering somewhat. The renminbi, however, was relatively stable, reportedly in part because investors believed that Chinese authorities were prepared to take measures to counter significant renminbi depreciation.

Regarding domestic financial markets, the manager noted that U.S. equity markets had posted strong gains, spurred by optimism regarding the U.S. economic outlook and rising corporate earnings. Longer-term Treasury yields moved higher, and market-based measures of the expected path of the funds rate edged up. According to the Open Market Desk's Survey of Primary Dealers and Survey of Market Participants, a 25 basis point increase in the target range for the federal funds rate at the September meeting was widely expected; moreover, investors appeared to be placing high odds on a further quarter-point policy firming at the December meeting. In U.S. money markets, the spread between the three-month London interbank offered rate and three-month overnight index swap (OIS) rates continued to narrow. The widening in that spread earlier in the year appeared to reflect an especially rapid run-up in Treasury bill supply. Treasury bill supply remained elevated and reportedly continued to contribute to upward pressure on overnight repurchase agreement (repo) rates. The relatively high level of repo rates was associated with continued very modest take-up in the Federal Reserve's overnight reverse repurchase agreement (ON RRP) operations. Elevated repo rates may also have contributed to the relatively tight spread between the interest on excess reserves (IOER) rate and the effective federal funds rate. That spread stood at 3 basis points over much of the period and seemed likely to narrow to 2 basis points in the near future. As yet, there were no signs that the upward pressure on the federal funds rate relative to the IOER rate was due to scarcity of aggregate reserves in the banking system. The level of reserves in the banking system temporarily dipped sharply in mid-September in connection with a sizable inflow of tax receipts to the Treasury's account at the Federal Reserve; however, that reduction in reserves in the banking system did not seem to have any effect on the federal funds market or the effective federal funds rate.

In reviewing Federal Reserve operations, the manager noted that market reaction to the ongoing reduction in the System's holdings of Treasury and agency securities had been muted to date. With the increase in the caps on redemptions to be implemented beginning in October, reinvestment of Treasury securities would occur almost exclusively in the middle month of each quarter in connection with the Treasury's midquarter refunding auctions. Under the baseline path for interest rates, the Federal Reserve's reinvestments of principal payments on agency mortgage-backed securities would likely fall to zero beginning in October; however, prepayments could rise somewhat above the redemption cap in some months in the future given the uncertainties surrounding prepayment projections.

By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Desk's domestic transactions over the intermeeting period. There were no intervention operations in foreign currencies for the System's account during the intermeeting period.