The information reviewed for the September 25-26 meeting indicated that labor market conditions continued to strengthen in recent months and that real gross domestic product (GDP) appeared to be rising at a strong rate in the third quarter, similar to its pace in the first half of the year. The flooding and damage from Hurricane Florence, which made landfall on September 14, seemed likely to have a modest, transitory effect on national economic growth in the second half of the year. Consumer price inflation, as measured by the 12-month percentage change in the price index for personal consumption expenditures (PCE), remained near 2 percent in July. Survey-based measures of longer-run inflation expectations were little changed on balance.

Total nonfarm payroll employment increased at a strong pace, on average, in July and August. The national unemployment rate decreased to 3.9 percent in July and remained at that level in August, while the labor force participation rate and the employment-to-population ratio moved down somewhat, on balance, over those two months. The unemployment rates for African Americans, Asians, and Hispanics in August were below their levels at the end of the previous expansion. The share of workers employed part time for economic reasons declined further to below its level in late 2007. The rate of private-sector job openings continued to be elevated in June and July, while the rate of quits moved higher on balance; initial claims for unemployment insurance benefits were at a historically low level in mid-September. Total labor compensation per hour in the nonfarm business sector increased 3.3 percent over the four quarters ending in the second quarter, and average hourly earnings for all employees rose 2.9 percent over the 12 months ending in August.

Industrial production expanded at a solid pace in July and August. Automakers' assembly schedules suggested that light motor vehicle production would be roughly flat in the fourth quarter, although broader indicators of manufacturing production, such as the new orders indexes from national and regional manufacturing surveys, pointed to further solid gains in factory output in the near term.

Real PCE appeared to be rising strongly in the third quarter. Retail sales increased somewhat in August, and the data for July were revised up to show a sizable gain. However, the rate of light motor vehicle sales moved down in July and August from the robust pace in the second quarter. The staff's preliminary assessment was that the consequences of Hurricane Florence would have a slight negative effect on aggregate real PCE growth in the third quarter but that spending would bounce back in the fourth quarter. More broadly, recent readings on key factors that influence consumer spending--including gains in employment, real disposable personal income, and households' net worth--continued to be supportive of solid real PCE growth in the near term. Moreover, consumer sentiment, as measured by the University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers, remained upbeat in August and early September.

Real residential investment looked to be declining further in the third quarter. Starts for new single-family homes and multifamily units were, on average, below their second-quarter rates in July and August. The issuance of building permits for both types of housing stepped down, on net, over those two months, which suggested that starts might move lower in coming months. Sales of both new and existing homes declined somewhat in July, and existing home sales were flat in August.

Growth in real private expenditures for business equipment and intellectual property appeared to be moderating a little in the third quarter following strong gains in expenditures in the first half of the year. Nominal shipments of nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft rose briskly in July, although spending for transportation equipment investment moved down in recent months. Forward-looking indicators of business equipment spending--such as increases in new and unfilled capital goods orders, along with upbeat readings on business sentiment from national and regional surveys--pointed to robust gains in equipment spending in the near term. Nominal business expenditures for nonresidential structures outside of the drilling and mining sector declined in July, and the number of crude oil and natural gas rigs in operation--an indicator of business spending for structures in the drilling and mining sector--held about steady in recent weeks.

Total real government purchases looked to be rising further in the third quarter. Nominal defense spending in July and August was consistent with continued increases in real federal purchases. Real expenditures by state and local governments appeared to be roughly flat, as state and local government payrolls decreased slightly in July and August, while nominal construction spending by these governments rose modestly in July.

The nominal U.S. international trade deficit widened in June and July, with declining exports and rising imports. The decline in exports largely reflected lower exports of capital goods, while greater imports of industrial supplies boosted overall imports. The available data suggested that the change in net exports would be a notable drag on real GDP growth in the third quarter.

Total U.S. consumer prices, as measured by the PCE price index, increased 2.3 percent over the 12 months ending in July. Core PCE price inflation, which excludes changes in consumer food and energy prices, was 2.0 percent over that same period. The consumer price index (CPI) rose 2.7 percent over the 12 months ending in August, while core CPI inflation was 2.2 percent. Recent readings on survey-based measures of longer-run inflation expectations--including those from the Michigan survey, the Survey of Professional Forecasters, and the Desk's Survey of Primary Dealers and Survey of Market Participants--were little changed on balance.

Foreign economic growth slowed in the second quarter, as a pickup in growth for the advanced foreign economies (AFEs) was more than offset by slower growth in the EMEs. Incoming indicators for the AFEs pointed to some moderation in the pace of growth in the third quarter, especially for Canada and Japan, while indicators for the EMEs suggested a pickup in many countries from the unusually slow pace of the second quarter. Foreign inflation had risen a bit recently, boosted by higher oil prices and, in the EMEs, higher food prices and recent currency depreciation.