The information available at the time of the meeting indicated that consumer price inflation remained somewhat elevated. The unemployment rate had stabilized at a relatively low level since the middle of last year, but reported real GDP growth stepped down markedly in the first quarter of 2025.

Total consumer price inflation—as measured by the 12-month change in the price index for personal consumption expenditures (PCE)—was 2.3 percent in March. Core PCE price inflation, which excludes changes in consumer energy prices and many consumer food prices, was 2.6 percent in March. Both total and core inflation were lower than their year-earlier levels.

Recent data indicated that labor market conditions had remained solid. The unemployment rate was 4.2 percent in March and April, equal to its average over the second half of 2024. The participation rate had risen 0.2 percentage point since February, and the employment-to-population ratio had edged up 0.1 percentage point over the same period. Average monthly gains for total nonfarm payrolls over March and April were solid and roughly in line with the average pace seen over 2024. The ratio of job vacancies to unemployed workers was 1.0 in April, slightly below its average over 2019. The employment cost index for total hourly compensation of private industry workers rose 3.4 percent over the 12 months ending in March, well below its year-earlier level. Average hourly earnings for all employees rose 3.8 percent over the 12 months ending in April, little changed from a year ago.

According to the advance estimate, real GDP declined slightly in the first quarter. However, this first-quarter estimate was likely affected by measurement issues. Real imports of goods and services soared in the first quarter, likely driven by front-loading of imports—especially consumer goods—ahead of anticipated tariff hikes. Given relatively tepid export growth, the net exports category made a large negative contribution to measured GDP growth in the first quarter. Based on available data, the outsized increase in imports did not seem to be fully matched by corresponding increases in other categories of spending, including inventory investment, resulting in a small decline in estimated real GDP. By contrast, real private domestic final purchases (PDFP)—which comprises PCE and private fixed investment and which often provides a better signal than GDP of underlying economic momentum—posted a solid gain in the first quarter that was similar to its average rate of increase over 2024.

Indicators of foreign economic activity pointed to a moderate pace of expansion in the first quarter, likely supported in part by front-loaded demand from U.S. importers in anticipation of tariff hikes. However, more recent indicators suggested weakening momentum, notably in Canada and Mexico, amid elevated uncertainty about global trade policies. Inflation abroad was near central bank targets in most foreign economies, in part reflecting lower energy prices. By contrast, Chinese inflation remained quite subdued.

The European Central Bank, the Bank of Mexico, and several central banks in emerging Asia eased monetary policy, citing in part the prospective drag on domestic growth from U.S. tariffs. In their communications, foreign central banks also emphasized the need to maintain policy flexibility amid heightened uncertainty.