The manager turned first to a review of financial market developments. Amid significant market volatility over the intermeeting period, longer-maturity Treasury yields rose, broad equity price indexes changed little on net, credit spreads widened, and the dollar depreciated. The manager observed that market participants appeared to interpret recently announced trade policy changes as a negative supply shock that could restrain domestic activity relative to foreign activity in the near term. The manager noted that respondents to the Open Market Desk's Survey of Market Expectations had materially lowered their gross domestic product (GDP) forecasts and raised their inflation forecasts for this year while significantly increasing the probability they placed on a recession occurring within the next six months.

The dollar depreciated substantially against most major currencies, as the trade-weighted broad dollar index declined over 2 percent. Market contacts attributed the decline to increased foreign exchange hedging prompted by heightened policy uncertainty and concerns that trade policy could pose greater downside risks to the U.S. than to other economies. The manager noted that the dollar had depreciated even though U.S. interest rates had risen more than foreign interest rates and prices of risky assets had declined, which historically have been associated with dollar appreciation. Liquidity in foreign exchange markets deteriorated but was roughly in line with the historical relationship between liquidity and measures of market volatility.

The Treasury yield curve steepened materially, as short-term Treasury yields declined about 20 basis points over the intermeeting period while longer-term yields increased on net. Measures of Treasury market liquidity deteriorated immediately after the announcement of higher-than-expected tariffs on April 2 and partially recovered later in the period. The deterioration in liquidity, however, was commensurate with the historical relationship between measures of market volatility and liquidity, and the Treasury market continued to function well. The manager noted that an unwinding of positions that had sought to profit on spreads between Treasury yields and interest rate swaps appeared to have been a factor in the deterioration of liquidity and the associated rise in longer-term yields. By contrast, positions held in order to arbitrage the basis between Treasury cash and futures prices had appeared to remain largely stable. Inflation expectations increased modestly at short horizons but remained stable at longer horizons.

While equity prices declined sharply early in the period, these movements subsequently retraced, and broad equity indexes were essentially unchanged on net. However, equity prices remained below their peak levels in mid-February, and options prices indicated greater investor demand for protection against further equity price declines. Corporate bond and leveraged loan spreads widened on net. Primary issuance had briefly paused at the height of market volatility but subsequently resumed.

Market contacts suggested that, rather than disinvesting away from U.S. assets, global investors had instead sought to increase their hedging against the risk of further dollar depreciation. The manager noted that no evidence indicated that foreign investors had sold material amounts of U.S. assets. Available data pointed to modest outflows from fixed-income securities that were largely offset by inflows into equity securities. The manager, however, observed that large global investors tend to change their investment strategies only slowly and that potential future geographic asset re-allocations will depend on the evolution of the global economic outlook.

The modal implied policy path based on options prices, which is a proxy for market baseline policy expectations, moved down some over the period and was consistent with either one or two 25 basis point rate cuts by the end of the year—only slightly more than at the time of the March FOMC meeting. The option-implied distribution of rate outcomes around year-end shifted to the left and became more skewed to the downside. The market perception that risks to the policy rate tilted more to the downside accounts for the fact that the futures-based expected policy path shifted down more over the period and was consistent with around three rate cuts by year-end. The median modal path for the federal funds rate from the Survey of Market Expectations was not much changed and indicated either two or three rate cuts this year. However, the survey pointed to increased disagreement across respondents as to the most likely path of policy.

Despite the volatility in broader markets over the intermeeting period, money market functioning had remained orderly. Rates on Treasury repurchase agreements (repo) were somewhat higher, on average, over the period, but there had been no significant strains in that market. A range of core indicators continued to suggest that reserves remained abundant. The manager noted some movement in one of the Desk's indicators arising from a modest increase in federal funds borrowing by some domestic banks in the second half of April; however, that development appeared related to tax flows and was not indicative of tighter reserves conditions. The manager observed that reserves stood above $3.2 trillion and were expected to increase as the Treasury General Account (TGA) declined until resolution of the debt limit situation. Take-up at the overnight reverse repurchase agreement (ON RRP) facility had increased but remained low in absolute terms. Following the FOMC's decision to slow the pace of balance sheet runoff at its March meeting, respondents to the Survey of Market Expectations moved their expected date for the end of balance sheet runoff back, on average, to January 2026 and slightly lowered their estimates for the size of the Federal Reserve's balance sheet at the time that runoff stopped.

The manager reported that the Desk's technical exercises offering early settlement of the standing repo facility (SRF) conducted around the March quarter-end had gone smoothly and were well received. Market outreach indicated that dealers had a higher willingness to use the facility when early settlement was offered, and the Desk planned to make the addition of an option for early settlement a regular part of the SRF schedule starting in late June.

The Committee voted unanimously to renew the dollar and foreign currency liquidity swap arrangements with the Bank of Canada, the Bank of England, the Bank of Japan, the European Central Bank, and the Swiss National Bank. In addition, the Committee voted unanimously to renew the reciprocal currency arrangements with the Bank of Canada and the Bank of Mexico; these arrangements are associated with the Federal Reserve's participation in the North American Framework Agreement of 1994. The votes to renew the Federal Reserve's participation in these standing arrangements occur annually at the April or May FOMC meeting.

By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Desk's domestic transactions over the intermeeting period. There were no intervention operations in foreign currencies for the System's account during the intermeeting period.