Committee participants continued their discussions related to their review of the Federal Reserve's monetary policy framework, with a focus on the price-stability side of the dual mandate and the FOMC's monetary policy strategy. The staff briefed policymakers on lessons drawn from the experiences of the U.S. and other economies with inflation over the past five years and the possible implications for monetary policy. The staff discussed the role of large and persistent demand and supply shifts, the way production capacity constraints amplified supply–demand imbalances, and the degree to which labor market tightness contributed to inflation both in the U.S. and abroad.

The staff considered the role of stable longer-term inflation expectations in limiting the magnitude and persistence of the post-pandemic inflation surge and facilitating disinflation without significant damage to the labor market. The staff also considered whether medium-term inflation risks have become more balanced around the 2 percent objective than they were during the pre-pandemic period, when the proximity of the policy rate to the effective lower bound (ELB) appeared to contribute to inflation running persistently below 2 percent. They presented model-based analysis of the costs and benefits of different inflation-targeting strategies in conditions of low levels of aggregate demand and inflation as well as in situations in which simultaneously high inflation and unemployment lead to a tradeoff between the Committee's inflation and employment objectives.

In their discussions, participants strongly reaffirmed their commitment to the 2 percent longer-run inflation objective and to the importance of longer-term inflation expectations being firmly anchored at that target rate. They emphasized that anchored inflation expectations help the Committee in achieving price stability, thereby enhancing the Committee's ability to promote maximum employment. Some participants also noted that short-term inflation expectations matter for economic decisions and can affect the persistence of inflation. Participants agreed that a commitment to its explicit 2 percent inflation objective, along with anchored longer-term inflation expectations at that level, enhances the Committee's transparency and accountability and bolsters the effectiveness of monetary policy.

Participants discussed the advantages and disadvantages of flexible average inflation targeting, under which monetary policy seeks to make up for persistently below-objective inflation to achieve average inflation of 2 percent, and flexible inflation targeting, under which policy seeks to return inflation to 2 percent without making up for previous deviations from target. Participants generally observed that when the risks of the policy rate hitting the ELB were more prominent and inflation was persistently running below the target, flexible average inflation targeting could have potentially limited the risk of longer-run inflation expectations becoming unanchored to the downside. Participants noted, however, that the strategy of flexible average inflation targeting has diminished benefits in an environment with a substantial risk of large inflationary shocks or when ELB risks are less prominent. Participants indicated that they thought it would be appropriate to reconsider the average inflation--targeting language in the Statement on Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy. Participants noted that an effective monetary policy strategy must be robust to a wide variety of economic environments. They viewed flexible inflation targeting as a more robust policy strategy capable of correcting persistent deviations of inflation from either side of the Committee's 2 percent longer-run objective. Participants also noted that the Committee's strategy should reflect its willingness to make forceful use of all available tools as appropriate should the risks of hitting the ELB again materialize.