Over the intermeeting period, the market-implied path of the federal funds rate over the next few meetings edged up, on net, but declined somewhat toward the end of the year, as the announcements on new U.S. tariffs left investors more concerned about the near-term outlooks for both inflation and growth. Near-term inflation compensation rose notably, while longer-term inflation compensation appeared to remain well anchored. Against the backdrop of heightened volatility, yields on shorter- and medium-term nominal Treasury securities declined, but longer-term rates rose somewhat. The increase in longer-term yields appeared to be partly attributable to higher term premiums.

Prices of risky assets were extremely volatile over the intermeeting period amid multiple tariff-related developments. On net, broad equity prices ended the period little changed, and the VIX—a forward-looking measure of near-term equity market volatility—rose notably before partially retracing and ending the period at a modestly elevated level. Credit spreads widened, on net, especially for speculative-grade bonds, consistent with increased concerns about economic growth. Spreads, however, remained at low levels.

Tariff announcements led to a significant deterioration in global risk sentiment, which largely reversed following a subsequent pause of some of the tariffs and growing investor optimism about easing of trade tensions. On net, foreign equity prices moved down somewhat, while corporate bond spreads widened moderately. Market-based policy expectations and near-term inflation compensation declined notably in Europe. The dollar depreciated against many advanced foreign economy (AFE) currencies despite widening U.S.–AFE yield differentials. Market participants generally attributed dollar weakness to concerns about potential adverse effects of trade policy on the U.S. growth outlook.

Conditions in U.S. short-term funding markets remained orderly. While the TGA increased in the latter part of the period because of incoming tax receipts, it was expected to resume its decline. This dynamic, if realized, will boost the sum of ON RRP take-up and reserve balances until the resolution of the federal debt limit situation and will tend to put downward pressure on short-term market rates.

In domestic credit markets, most borrowing costs for businesses, households, and municipalities increased notably in response to the tariff news. Yields increased from already elevated levels for an array of fixed-income securities, including investment-grade corporate bonds and senior commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS) tranches, largely as a result of higher credit spreads. Rates on 30-year fixed-rate conforming residential mortgages edged down. Interest rates for credit card offers inched up in February, while those on new auto loans were little changed over the intermeeting period on net. Meanwhile, interest rates on commercial and industrial (C&I) loans and small business loans remained elevated in the first quarter.

Financing through capital markets and nonbank lenders was generally less available in the latter part of the intermeeting period than earlier in the period, especially for speculative-grade bonds. Issuance of corporate bonds and leveraged loans stopped during peak market turmoil in early April but resumed as market sentiment recovered. Issuance of investment-grade corporate bonds returned at a strong pace, particularly in the first week of May, while that of speculative-grade bonds and leveraged loans remained subdued. Regarding bank credit, banks in the April Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices (SLOOS) reported unchanged loan standards across all loan categories, on net, over the first quarter. 2 C&I loan balances edged down in the first quarter. Large banks reported easing lending standards or leaving them unchanged for all commercial real estate (CRE) loan categories, while smaller banks tightened standards or left them unchanged.

Consumer credit continued to be generally available for most households. Growth in consumer credit on banks' books stepped up in the first quarter, and responses to the April SLOOS showed a net easing of consumer lending standards in the first quarter. Credit continued to be easily available for high-credit-score mortgage borrowers but was not easily available for lower-credit-score borrowers.

Credit quality remained stable for large and midsize firms, most categories of mortgages, and consumer loans, but it continued to deteriorate in other sectors. The credit performance of corporate bonds, leveraged loans, and private credit loans was generally stable in the first quarter. Credit quality concerns in the CRE market broadened beyond office properties. Even so, average CMBS delinquency rates were little changed in March, as declining office and multifamily delinquencies offset a rise in the retail and hotel sectors. Regarding household credit quality, the rate of serious delinquencies on Federal Housing Administration mortgages continued to rise in February to above pre-pandemic levels. By contrast, delinquency rates on most other mortgage loan types remained at historical lows. In the fourth quarter of last year, credit card delinquency rates edged down, and auto delinquency rates were about unchanged, but both remained at elevated levels.

The staff provided an updated assessment of the stability of the U.S. financial system and, on balance, continued to characterize the system's financial vulnerabilities as notable. The staff judged that asset valuation pressures were notable. Equity valuations declined but still stood at the upper end of their historical distribution, spreads on high-yield corporate bonds widened and stood around the middle of their historical distribution, and housing valuations remained quite high amid increased risks to the economic outlook and the appearance of ebbing risk appetite.

Vulnerabilities associated with business and household debt were characterized as moderate. The ability of publicly traded firms to service their debt had improved slightly, partly reflecting stable earnings. That said, riskier firms continued to face high debt service costs relative to historical ranges. Household balance sheets remained solid overall, though delinquency rates on auto and credit card loans were elevated.

Vulnerabilities associated with leverage in the financial sector were characterized as notable. Regulatory capital ratios in the banking sector remained high. Banks, however, were still seen as exposed to some interest rate risk. In the nonbank sector, leverage at hedge funds stayed high.

Vulnerabilities associated with funding risks were characterized as moderate. The liquidity mismatch of assets and liabilities at mutual funds was evident amid substantial outflows in the first week of April. Nevertheless, the outflows were not sustained and did not ultimately strain overall liquidity in the markets in which the mutual funds invest. Banks reduced their reliance on uninsured deposits notably since the end of 2021.