The information reviewed at this meeting provided evidence that economic activity, which had expanded at an appreciably lower pace since midyear, might have slowed further in recent months. Consumer spending and business purchases of equipment and software had decelerated markedly after having registered extraordinary gains in the first half of the year. Housing construction, though still relatively firm, was noticeably below its robust pace of earlier in the year. With final spending rising at a reduced rate, inventory overhangs had emerged in a number of goods-producing industries, most visibly in the motor vehicle sector. Manufacturing production had declined as a consequence, and the rate of expansion in employment had moderated further. Evidence on core price inflation was mixed; by one measure, it appeared to be increasing very gradually, in part reflecting the indirect effects of higher energy costs, but by another it had remained at a relatively subdued level.

Growth in private nonfarm payroll employment moderated a little further on balance in October and November. Manufacturing payrolls changed little over the two months, and job gains in the construction, retail trade, and services industries were smaller than those of earlier in the year. By contrast, the pace of hiring remained relatively brisk in the finance, insurance, and real estate sectors. With growth in the demand for labor slowing, initial claims for unemployment insurance continued to trend upward, and the civilian unemployment rate edged up to 4 percent in November, its average thus far this year.

Industrial production declined slightly in October and November following a moderate third-quarter increase that was well below the pace of expansion recorded during the first half of the year. Utilities output surged in November in response to unseasonably cold weather across much of the country while mining activity changed little. In manufacturing, motor vehicle output was scaled back further in November, and there also were widespread declines in industries not directly affected by conditions in the motor vehicle sector. Although the production of high-tech equipment was still trending up, growth continued to slow from the extraordinarily rapid increases of earlier in the year. The weakening of factory output in November was reflected in a further decline in the rate of capacity utilization in manufacturing to a point somewhat below its long-term average.

Consumer spending appeared to be decelerating noticeably further in the fourth quarter in an environment of diminished consumer confidence, smaller job gains, and lower stock prices. Retail sales were down somewhat on balance in October and November after a substantial third-quarter increase; sales of light vehicles dropped over the two months, and growth in expenditures on other consumer goods slowed. Outlays on services continued to grow at a moderate rate through October (latest data).

Against the backdrop of declining interest rates on fixed-rate mortgages, residential building activity had leveled out since midyear, and October starts remained at the third-quarter level. Sales of new homes edged down in October, though they were still slightly above their third-quarter level; sales of existing homes slipped somewhat in October but were near the middle of their range over the past year. In the multifamily sector, starts moved up slightly further in October, though they remained appreciably below their elevated level during the first half of the year. Continuing relatively low vacancy rates for multifamily units suggested that the prospects for additional construction were favorable.

Business investment in equipment and software increased at a sharply lower, though still relatively robust, rate in the third quarter, and information on shipments of nondefense capital goods indicated another moderate increase in business investment in October. Shipments of communications, computing, and office equipment were well above their third-quarter averages, and shipments of non-high-tech equipment turned up in October after having fallen appreciably in earlier months. On the downside, sales of medium and heavy trucks declined further over October and November, and new orders for such trucks remained weak. Investment in nonresidential structures continued to rise briskly in October, and all the major subcategories of construction put in place were up substantially on a year-over-year basis. Market fundamentals, including rising property values and low vacancy rates, suggested that further expansion of nonresidential building activity, particularly office construction, was likely.

Inventory investment on a book-value basis picked up in October from the third-quarter pace, and the aggregate inventory-sales ratio edged up to its highest level in the past twelve months. In manufacturing, sizable increases in stocks were led by large accumulations at producers of industrial and electrical machinery. As a result, the stock-sales ratio for manufacturing reached its highest level in a year; advances in stock-sales ratios were widespread among makers of durable goods while ratios remained high for a number of categories of nondurable products. At the wholesale level, inventory accumulation inched up from its third-quarter rate, and the sector's inventory-sales ratio was at the top of its range for the past twelve months. Total retail stocks rose in line with sales in October, and the inventory-sales ratio for this sector also remained at the upper end of its range over the past year.

The U.S. trade deficit in goods and services reached a new record high in September and on a quarterly average basis was up appreciably further in the third quarter. The value of exports continued to grow strongly in the latest quarter, led by advances in exported machinery and industrial supplies. The value of imports rose at an even faster rate than exports, with increases in all major trade categories, especially industrial supplies, semiconductors, and services. Economic growth in the foreign industrial countries slowed moderately in the third quarter, and the available information suggested a further reduction in the fourth quarter. Economic expansion eased in the euro area despite continued strong growth of investment and exports, as consumer spending appeared to be damped by earlier interest rate increases and by the drain on spendable income of higher prices for oil and imported goods more generally. In addition, weak consumption appeared to be an important factor in continued sluggish economic growth in Japan. Economic activity also decelerated in some developing countries in the third quarter, with recent indicators suggesting a slowdown in expansion in many parts of East Asia.

Incoming data indicated that, on balance, price inflation had picked up only a little, if at all. Consumer prices, as measured by the consumer price index (CPI) on a total and a core basis, rose mildly in October and November after a sizable September increase, but on a year-over-year basis core CPI prices increased noticeably more in the twelve months ended in November than in the previous twelve-month period. When measured by the personal consumption expenditure (PCE) chain-type index, however, consumer price inflation was modest in both October (latest data) and the twelve months ended in October, with little change year over year. At the producer level, core prices edged down on balance in October and November; moreover, producer inflation eased somewhat on a year-over-year basis, though the deceleration was more than accounted for by an earlier surge in tobacco prices during the year ended in November 1999. With regard to labor costs, average hourly earnings of production or nonsupervisory workers increased in November at the slightly higher rate recorded in October. For the twelve months ended in October, average hourly earnings rose somewhat more than in the previous twelve months.