At its meeting on November 15, 2000, the Committee adopted a directive that called for maintaining conditions in reserve markets consistent with an unchanged federal funds rate of about 6-1/2 percent. In taking that action, the members noted that despite clear indications of a more moderate expansion in economic activity, persisting risks of heightened inflation pressures remained a concern, particularly in the context of a gradual upward trend in core inflation. In these circumstances, a steady monetary policy was the best means to promote price stability and sustainable economic expansion. While recognizing that growth was slowing more than had been anticipated and that developments might be moving in a direction that would require a shift to a balanced risk statement, members agreed that such a change would be premature. As a result, they agreed that the statement accompanying the announcement of their decision should continue to indicate that the risks remained weighted mainly in the direction of rising inflation.

Open market operations throughout the intermeeting period were directed toward maintaining the federal funds rate at the Committee's targeted level of 6-1/2 percent, and the average rate remained close to the intended level. Against the background of deteriorating conditions in some segments of financial markets, slower economic expansion, and public comments by Federal Reserve officials about the implications of those developments, market expectations about the future course of the federal funds rate were revised down appreciably over the intermeeting period, and market interest rates on Treasury and private investment-grade securities declined somewhat over the intermeeting interval. The weaker outlook for economic growth, coupled with growing market concerns about corporate earnings, weighed down equity prices and boosted risk spreads on lower-rated investment-grade and high-yield bonds. Equity prices were quite volatile during the intermeeting period and, reflecting numerous dour reports on corporate earnings and incoming information indicating slower growth in economic activity in the United States, broad indexes of stock market prices dropped considerably on balance over the intermeeting period.

In foreign exchange markets, the trade-weighted value of the dollar edged lower on balance over the intermeeting interval in terms of the currencies of a broad group of U.S. trading partners. Among the major foreign currencies, the dollar fell moderately against the euro but moved up to a roughly comparable extent in terms of the yen. The dollar's decline against the euro reflected a growing perception that economic expansion in the euro area would cool comparatively less than in the United States. Correspondingly, the slide of the yen seemed to be related to weak economic data, stagnant business sentiment, and political uncertainties in Japan. The dollar posted a small gain against an index of the currencies of other important trading partners, largely reflecting weaker financial conditions in some emerging economies.

The broad monetary aggregates decelerated further in November. The slowing growth of M2 in October and November following strong expansion in August and September apparently reflected the moderating rates of increase in nominal income and spending in recent months and perhaps some persisting effects of the rise in opportunity costs earlier in the year. M3 growth slowed less than that of M2 in November, in part because of stepped-up issuance of large time deposits as banks reduced their reliance on funding from overseas offices. The growth of domestic nonfinancial debt slowed in October (latest data), reflecting a larger further paydown of federal debt and a reduced pace of private borrowing.