In the Committee's discussion of current and prospective economic developments, members commented that recent statistical and anecdotal information provided clear indications of significant slowing in the expansion of business activity and also pointed to appreciable erosion in business and consumer confidence. The deceleration in the economy had occurred from an unsustainably high growth rate in the first half of the year, and the resulting containment in demand pressures on resources already had improved the outlook for inflation. The question at this juncture was whether the expansion would remain near its recent pace or continue to moderate. While the former still seemed to be the most likely outcome, the very recent information on labor markets, sales and production, business and consumer confidence, developments in financial markets, and growth in foreign economies suggested that the risks to the economy had shifted rapidly and perceptibly to the downside. Concerning the outlook for inflation, members commented that the upside risks clearly had diminished in the wake of recent developments and that, with pressures on resources likely to abate at least a little, subdued inflation was a reasonable prospect.

Weakening trends in production and employment were most apparent in the manufacturing sector. There were widespread anecdotal reports of production cutbacks, notably in industries related to motor vehicles, and of associated declines in manufacturing employment. However, many of the factory workers losing their jobs were readily finding employment elsewhere in what generally continued to be characterized as very tight labor markets across the country. The softening in manufacturing reflected weak sales and prompt efforts to limit unwanted buildups in inventories. Even so, business contacts reported currently undesired levels of inventories in a range of industries, not only in motor vehicles. In the aggregate, cutbacks in inventory investment or runoffs of existing inventories accounted for a significant part of the recent moderation in the growth of the overall economy.

The slowing in the growth of consumer spending that had prompted much of the backup in inventories was evident from a wide variety of information, including anecdotal reports from various parts of the country. Consumer sentiment seemed to have deteriorated appreciably in recent weeks, though from a very high level, and retail sales were widely indicated to have softened after a promising spurt early in the holiday season. Factors cited to account for the relatively sudden emergence of this weakness, and also as possible harbingers of developments in coming quarters, were the negative wealth effects of further declines in stock market prices, the impact of very high energy costs on disposable incomes, and some increase in caution about the outlook for employment opportunities and incomes. The extent to which such developments would persist and perhaps foster more aggressive retrenchment in consumer spending clearly was uncertain, but the members nonetheless anticipated that over time underlying employment and income trends would be consistent with further expansion in consumer expenditures, though at a pace well below that of earlier in the year.

Growth in business expenditures for equipment and software had moderated substantially in recent months from very high rates of increase over an extended period. The slowdown reflected a mix of interrelated developments including flagging growth in demand and tightening financial conditions in the form of declining equity prices and stricter credit terms for many business borrowers. The re-evaluation of prospects was most pronounced in the high-tech industries. The profitability of using and producing such software and equipment had been overestimated to a degree, and disappointing sales and a better appreciation of risks had resulted in much slower growth in production of such equipment and sharp deterioration in the equity prices of high-tech companies. At the same time, nonresidential construction activity appeared to have been well maintained in many parts of the country, though there were reports of softening in some regions and of some reductions or delays in planned projects. Against this background, risks of further retrenchment in capital spending persisted, but to date there was no evidence to suggest that the underlying pace of advances in technology and related productivity growth had abated. Over time, further increases in productivity would undergird continuing growth in demand for high-tech equipment. In the nonresidential construction area, members noted that high occupancy rates and high rents were supportive elements in the construction outlook.

With regard to the prospects for housing activity, members provided anecdotal reports of some softening in a number of regions, though homebuilding was holding up well in others. Housing demand was, of course, responding to many of the same factors that were affecting consumer spending, including the negative wealth effects of declining stock market prices. On the positive side, further growth in incomes and declines in mortgage rates were key elements of underlying strength for the housing sector. On balance, housing construction at a pace near current levels appeared to be a reasonable prospect in association with forecasts of moderate growth in the overall economy.

Growth in foreign economic activity likely would continue to foster expansion in U.S. exports, though members noted that there were signs of softer business conditions in some foreign nations. In addition, members referred to some anecdotal evidence of increasing concern among business contacts about future prospects for exports of manufactured goods. On the other hand, any depreciation in the foreign exchange value of the dollar as the economy slowed would help to bolster exports.

Against the backdrop of slowing economic growth, core inflation had remained quiescent. Views regarding the outlook for inflation were somewhat mixed, though all the members agreed that the risks of higher inflation had diminished materially. Nonetheless, some members noted that while recent anecdotal reports pointed to a modest reduction in labor market strains in some areas and industries, labor markets in general were still very tight and likely would remain taut relative to historical experience. In such circumstances, if structural productivity growth leveled out, worker efforts to catch up to past increases in productivity could put pressures on labor compensation costs. The latter could well be augmented by sharply rising medical costs and by attempts to protect the purchasing power of wages from the erosion caused by the rise in energy prices. Further depreciation of the dollar in relation to major foreign currencies would add to import prices and domestic inflation pressures. But there were also a number of reasons for optimism about the outlook for consumer prices over coming quarters. Growth in economic activity at a pace somewhat below that of the economy's output potential would lessen pressures on labor and other resources from levels that had, in the past few years, been associated with at most a small uptick in core inflation. Indications that rapid growth in structural productivity would persist and widespread reports that strong competitive pressures in most markets continued to inhibit business efforts to increase prices in the face of rising costs also were favorable factors in the outlook. Further declines in oil prices, as evidenced by quotations in futures markets, would if realized have effects not only on so-called headline inflation but would help hold down core prices over time. Despite previous increases in headline inflation, survey and other measures of inflation expectations continued to suggest that long-run inflation expectations had not risen and might even have fallen a bit of late as the economy softened.

In the Committee's discussion of policy for the intermeeting period ahead, all the members indicated that they could support an unchanged policy stance, consistent with a federal funds rate averaging about 6-1/2 percent. However, they also endorsed a proposal calling for a shift in the balance of risks statement to be issued after this meeting to express the view that most members believed the risks were now weighted toward conditions that could generate economic weakness in the foreseeable future. In their evaluation of the appropriate policy for these changing circumstances, the members agreed that the critical issue was whether the expansion would stabilize near its recent growth rate or was continuing to slow. In the view of almost all the members, the currently available information bearing on this issue was not sufficient to warrant an easing at this point. Much of the usual aggregative data on spending and employment, although to be sure available only with a lag, continued to suggest moderate economic expansion. The information pointing to further weakness was very recent and to an important extent anecdotal. As a consequence, most of the members were persuaded that a prudent policy course would be to await further confirmation of a weakening expansion before easing, particularly in light of the high level of resource utilization and the experience of recent years when several lulls in the growth of the economy had been followed by a resumption of very robust economic expansion. Additional evidence of slowing economic growth might well materialize in the weeks immediately ahead--from the regular aggregated monthly data releases, but also from weekly readings on the labor market and reports from businesses on the strength of sales and production--and the members agreed that the Committee should be prepared to respond promptly to indications of further weakness in the economy. Those few members who expressed a preference for easing at this meeting believed that, with unit labor costs and inflation expectations contained, enough evidence of further weakness already existed to warrant an immediate action. Nonetheless, they could accept a delay in light of prevailing uncertainties about the prospective performance of the economy and the intention of the Committee to act promptly in coming weeks, including the possibility of an easing move early in the intermeeting period, should confirming information on weakening trends in the economy emerge.

With regard to the consensus in favor of moving from an assessment of risks weighted toward rising inflation to one that was weighted toward economic weakness, with no intermediate issuance of a balanced risks assessment, some members observed that such a change was likely to be viewed as a relatively rapid shift by some observers. The revised statement of risks, even though it would not be associated with an easing move, could strengthen expectations regarding future monetary policy easing to an extent that was difficult to predict and could generate sizable reactions in financial markets. At the same time, it might raise questions about why the Committee did not alter the stance of policy. Nonetheless, the Committee's reasons for not easing today were deemed persuasive by most members, while shifting its statement about economic risks seemed clearly justified by recent developments. In one view, even though the risks of a weakening economy had increased, a statement of balanced risks would be preferable because further moderation in the expansion might well fail to materialize.