In the Committee's discussion, members commented that the recent information bearing on the economic outlook was mixed. The latest reports on economic activity generally were disappointing, notably those relating to employment and production, but members noted that most of these reports covered developments occurring before the end of hostilities in Iraq. The successful prosecution of the war had served to reduce geopolitical uncertainties and in turn had helped to foster a marked strengthening of domestic financial markets, a sizable decline in oil prices, and an apparent upturn in consumer confidence. In this improved environment, members anticipated that near-term sluggishness in economic growth would give way to more vigorous expansion as the year progressed. In support of this expectation, it was noted that if the substantial gains in financial markets experienced recently persisted, experience indicated that a stronger economic performance generally would follow. Favorable factors in the outlook mentioned by members included an accommodative monetary policy, prospective legislation that would increase an already stimulative fiscal policy, and evidence of a persisting uptrend in productivity that provided enhanced investment opportunities and ongoing support for household incomes. Continued progress in lifting various constraints on economic growth, including the unwinding of excessive or misdirected capital expenditures undertaken in earlier years and the steps taken to address corporate governance and credit problems were also working to strengthen the expansion. Against that backdrop, it was noteworthy that many private-sector forecasters predicted a pronounced upturn in economic growth in the third quarter. Despite underlying factors that seemed increasingly conducive to an accelerating expansion, members noted that the timing and vigor of a pickup in economic activity remained uncertain, especially in the context of a persistently high degree of caution in the business community with regard to investment and hiring decisions. With the removal of key uncertainties associated with the Iraqi war, the information that would become available in the weeks ahead was expected to provide a clearer basis for assessing future trends in business spending and, more generally, the underlying strength of the economy. Members anticipated that inflation would remain at a low level for an extended period and indeed that the probability of further disinflation was higher than that of a pickup in inflation, given the current high levels of excess capacity in labor and product markets, which seemed likely to diminish only gradually.

Business fixed investment remained a key factor in the prospects for overall economic activity, and persisting weakness in such spending in association with gloomy sentiment and a high degree of risk aversion among business decisionmakers did not bode well for the capital investment outlook, at least for the near term. Anecdotal reports by business contacts tended to emphasize widespread excess capacity as a reason for holding down business capital spending, including high vacancy rates in office and other business structures. In this atmosphere, most business decisionmakers evidently preferred to rely on the increasingly efficient or fuller utilization of existing producer facilities rather than expanding the latter to meet growth in demand. Indeed, according to business contacts, investment expenditures generally were limited to replacement and to some extent to upgrading of existing facilities rather than for expansion. In some cases, businesses reportedly were acquiring used capital equipment and unoccupied building space at greatly reduced costs, thereby holding down the current production of new capital but also relieving selling firms of some excess capacity.

Members nonetheless saw a number of favorable elements in the outlook for business investment expenditures. These included a decline in the cost of business capital, a recent rise in orders and backlogs of nondefense capital goods, persisting gains in productivity that undoubtedly pointed to growing profit opportunities, progress in strengthening business balance sheets, and reduced capital overhangs. With regard to business attitudes, members reported very recent but also widespread indications from their contacts that business confidence might be in the process of improving, though the upturn in confidence was not likely to show through to investment outlays for some time.

In the household sector, an appreciable decline in sales of motor vehicles and slower growth in other consumer spending in the first quarter appeared to reflect concerns relating to the Iraqi war and adverse weather conditions in some parts of the country. More recently, attractive sales incentives had boosted consumer purchases of motor vehicles, albeit not as much as some industry contacts had hoped, and members referred to tentative signs of a pickup in retail sales. On balance, however, the members did not see any firm indications of significant acceleration in consumer spending. More positively, they cited recent survey and anecdotal evidence of improving consumer confidence and referred to the gains in the stock market as a source of potential impetus going forward. In the housing markets, activity currently was somewhat uneven across the nation but had remained at a high overall level. While favorable financing would help to sustain the housing sector, members anticipated that any further impetus to growth from that sector was likely to be limited.

The members expected economic activity to be supported by substantial fiscal stimulus in coming quarters, with that already built into existing federal legislation likely to be augmented by further initiatives under active consideration in the Congress. However, budgets of numerous state and local governments remained under severe pressure, and efforts to contain spending and raise taxes by those governments would offset some of the federal stimulus this year and next. It was not clear at this point how some state and local governments would resolve their current budgetary crises and what the effects would be on many local economies.

A weakening dollar and sluggish economic conditions abroad were key factors impinging on the prospective contribution of the foreign sector to U.S. economic activity. While foreign demand for U.S. products and services would be supported by the dollar's depreciation, relatively weak foreign economic activity would tend to hold down such demand. On balance, the nation's trade deficit was likely to remain at an elevated level, with moderate gains in exports more than offset by larger increases in imports if forecasts of relatively robust U.S. growth in fact materialized.

Even assuming a pickup in the expansion of economic activity in line with current forecasts for this year and next, excess capacity in labor and product markets would remain elevated and might well foster further disinflation over coming quarters. The decline in inflation might be limited to some extent by the depreciated value of the dollar in foreign exchange markets and by the anticipated effects of further large increases in worker benefit costs. Given the pressure of a considerable amount of unused resources, any adverse developments that held down economic expansion would increase the probability of further disinflation. Members commented that substantial additional disinflation would be unwelcome because of the likely negative effects on economic activity and the functioning of financial institutions and markets, and the increased difficulty of conducting an effective monetary policy, at least potentially in the event the economy was subjected to adverse shocks. Members also agreed that there was only a remote possibility that the process of disinflation would cumulate to the point of a decline for an extended period in the general price level.

In the Committee's discussion of policy for the intermeeting period ahead, all the members indicated that they could support a proposal to maintain an unchanged policy stance. The members acknowledged that a case could be made for easing policy immediately in light of the generally disappointing reports on the recent performance of the economy, the ongoing disinflation trend in a period of already low inflation, and forecasts of persisting excess capacity. Nonetheless, they concluded that, on balance, an easing action was not desirable at this time. They noted that not enough time had elapsed since the end of the Iraqi war to sort out the underlying forces at work in the economy. In particular, the lifting of key uncertainties relating to the war would provide an improved opportunity to assess whether the favorable factors in the outlook would in fact lead to the anticipated strengthening in economic activity and, at the same time, diminish the risk of appreciable further disinflation. Some members cautioned that persisting uncertainty regarding economic trends should not provide a basis for prolonged inaction in light of the risks of further disinflation and subpar economic growth. In the absence of convincing indications of an appreciable pickup in economic growth, an easing move might be desirable in the near term, perhaps at the June meeting.

With regard to the press announcement to be released shortly after this meeting, the members supported new language that provided separate assessments of the risks to the goal for acceptable economic growth and the risks to the goal of price stability. They recognized that the usual summary statement did not allow for the circumstances in which the Committee saw some probability, albeit minor, of a significant further decline in inflation to an unwelcome level. After discussion, the members generally agreed on separate sentences indicating that the risks to its goal of sustainable economic growth were about balanced but that the probability of some disinflation from an already low level exceeded that of a pickup in inflation. The members also accepted a summary statement stating that, taken together, the balance of risks to the Committee's dual goals was tilted toward the downside over the foreseeable future. There was some concern that including such a summary sentence in the press release might be mistakenly interpreted as an indication of Committee concern about the outlook for economic activity rather than a judgment about the relative odds on further inflation. Two members saw merit in adopting a balanced risks assessment at this meeting despite the evident shortcomings in present circumstances of the form of such statements in use in recent years.