When the Committee met on March 18, 2003, the nation appeared to be on the brink of war. At the end of that meeting, the Committee adopted a directive that called for maintaining conditions in reserve markets consistent with keeping the federal funds rate around 1-1/4 percent. The Committee agreed to indicate in its announcement that in light of the unusually large uncertainties clouding the geopolitical situation in the short run and their apparent effects on economic decisionmaking, it could not at that time usefully characterize the current balance of risks with respect to the prospects for its long-run goals of price stability and sustainable economic growth. The Committee also agreed that heightened surveillance would be particularly informative. It was noted that while the recent economic data were mixed, the hesitancy of the economic expansion appeared to owe significantly to oil price premiums and other aspects of geopolitical uncertainties. The Committee believed that as those uncertainties lifted, the accommodative stance of monetary policy, coupled with the ongoing growth in productivity, would provide vital support toward fostering improving economic performance over time.

The decision to leave policy on hold had been largely anticipated by market participants, but the inclusion in the policy announcement of a reference to "heightened surveillance" led initially to downward revisions to expectations for the future path of the federal funds rate. The abatement of war-related risks was reflected in sizable declines in forward-looking measures of uncertainty in short- and long-term interest rates, exchange rates, and oil and equity prices. Nearer-term Treasury yields had fallen, but longer-term Treasury yields had changed little since the March meeting. Risk spreads on corporate debt securities narrowed across the credit quality spectrum. Broad equity indexes registered notable gains related to better-than-expected corporate earnings reports.

In foreign exchange markets, the trade-weighted value of the dollar in terms of the major foreign currencies declined over the intermeeting period. The dollar depreciated somewhat more against the euro and the Canadian dollar and only slightly against the Japanese yen. The dollar also declined against an index of currencies of other important trading partners. Equity markets in the major industrial economies, except Japan, had risen significantly since the March FOMC meeting.

Growth in M2 slowed over March and April, but most of the deceleration appeared to be attributable to temporary tax-related flows of funds. A movement toward earlier electronic filing apparently weakened M2 in March by shifting refund distributions into February. Reduced M2 growth in April reflected, in part, slower-than-average buildups of deposits associated with final tax payments by individuals. Substantial net inflows to equity mutual funds occurred during the same period.