The information reviewed at this meeting suggested that economic activity continued to grow at a subpar pace in recent months. Consumer spending advanced slightly in the first quarter and housing activity remained at a high level, but business investment slowed. Industrial production was sluggish, and additional slack accumulated in the labor market. Core consumer inflation had moved lower, but overall consumer prices had been pushed up recently by sharp rises in energy prices.

Private nonfarm payroll employment continued to fall in April. Manufacturing employment registered widespread losses, and the retail trade, transportation, and utilities industries extended their declines of prior months. The unemployment rate rose to 6 percent in April, with increases spread widely across most demographic groups. Initial claims for unemployment insurance remained at an elevated level, suggesting further labor market weakness in May.

Industrial production fell in March, and weekly physical product data and other indicators pointed to another drop in April. Lower output at utilities accounted for some of the decline in overall production in March but manufacturing output, especially motor vehicle assemblies, fell again. Total industrial capacity utilization declined in March, with capacity utilization in manufacturing reaching a twenty-year low.

Real personal consumer expenditures rose in March and for the first quarter as a whole. Spending on durable goods increased in March but was down a bit for the full quarter. By contrast, spending on services and nondurable goods fell in March but was up on balance in the first quarter. Disposable income was unchanged in March. Measures of consumer confidence rebounded sharply in April after sizable declines in February and March.

Residential housing activity remained solid, though some signs of potential moderation emerged. Supported by continued low mortgage rates, first-quarter housing starts in the single-family sector stayed at the high level of the fourth quarter. Multifamily starts also changed little in the first three months of the year and vacancy rates in the sector remained high. Sales of existing homes were off a bit in March, but sales for the first quarter as a whole edged up from the fourth-quarter rate. New home sales, however, were down from their fourth-quarter pace.

Real outlays on equipment and software declined in the first quarter after rising moderately over the three preceding quarters. A sharp drop in purchases of transportation equipment more than accounted for the first-quarter decline. The weakness in the transportation category reflected sluggish expenditures for aircraft, medium and heavy trucks, and light vehicles. By contrast, the high-tech category recorded strong growth owing to a surge in spending for computer and peripheral equipment and an upturn in purchases of communications equipment. Although investment fundamentals, such as corporate cash flows and reduced costs of capital, remained favorable, reports from businesses were downbeat. The extended decline in real investment spending on nonresidential structures moderated further in the first quarter, with the smallest decline since the first quarter of 2001.

Real nonfarm inventories excluding motor vehicles appeared to have declined a little in the first quarter after accumulating in recent quarters. The buildup of manufacturing and trade inventories, however, continued in January and February at an average pace similar to that of the second half of 2002. Relative to sales, non-auto inventory stocks in most sectors were low by recent standards. According to industry reports, inventories in the motor vehicle industry apparently had risen above desired levels.

The U.S. trade deficit in goods and services narrowed slightly in February and brought the average deficit for January and February to an annual rate near that of the fourth quarter. The narrowing in February was accounted for by a small decline in imports and a marginal rise in exports. Recent indicators suggested continued sluggish economic growth in most foreign industrial nations. The Japanese economy was about flat in the early months of the year, activity in the euro area remained subdued, and first-quarter growth in the United Kingdom was lackluster. Canadian domestic demand remained relatively robust but appeared to be slowing. Economic conditions in other countries were mixed. In Latin America, Mexican data releases pointed toward increases in economic activity, and the Argentine economy continued to show signs of recovery. In contrast, Venezuela remained in crisis, and economic activity in Brazil appeared to have moderated despite improved financial market conditions. In developing Asia, indicators suggested that economic growth had slowed in much of the region. China, however, registered robust growth in the first quarter.

Core consumer price inflation moved down further in the first quarter from its already low level. A sharp run-up in energy prices, however, pushed up overall consumer prices in the first quarter and in the year ended in March (measured by both the consumer price index and the chain-type personal consumption expenditure index). Producer prices also were boosted significantly by the jump in energy prices in recent months. Core producer prices were up appreciably in the first quarter but at a slower pace than overall producer prices. With regard to labor costs, the employment cost index for hourly compensation of private industry workers rose at a faster rate during the three months ended in March, reflecting increases in wages and salaries and in benefit costs. The expansion of compensation costs over the twelve months ended in March was virtually the same as in the previous twelve-month period.