The market-implied path of the federal funds rate decreased notably over the intermeeting period. Options on interest rate futures suggested that market participants were placing a higher probability on greater policy easing by early 2026 than they had just before the July FOMC meeting. Consistent with the downward shift in the implied policy rate path, nominal Treasury yields declined notably, on net, particularly at shorter horizons. Changes in nominal yields were driven primarily by reductions in real Treasury yields as inflation compensation fell to a lesser degree, on net, across maturities.

Broad equity price indexes increased amid strong corporate earnings reports and expectations of lower policy rates, while credit spreads were little changed and remained very low by historical standards. The one-month option-implied volatility on the S&P 500 index—the VIX—ended the period essentially unchanged, on net, at a moderate level.

Risk sentiment generally improved in global financial markets, supported by trade policy developments that were perceived as reducing negative tail risks to economic growth, strong corporate earnings, and lower interest rates in the U.S. On balance, foreign equity indexes rose moderately, credit spreads narrowed slightly, and the exchange value of the dollar declined modestly. Increased political uncertainty led to volatility of longer-term government bond yields in some advanced foreign economies.

Conditions in U.S. short-term funding markets remained orderly over the intermeeting period, and the FOMC's target policy rate continued to transmit to private rates in the usual manner. Following the increase in the federal debt limit in early July, TGA balances continued to increase, while usage of the ON RRP facility declined notably to its lowest levels since April 2021. Amid increases in the TGA, there were mild upward pressures in secured market rates over the July and August month-ends. Secured rates remained elevated in the lead-up to the mid-September tax and coupon issuance date. On September 15, the Secured Overnight Financing Rate temporarily printed above the minimum bid rate at the SRF amid $1.5 billion in take-up at the facility. Amid these movements in secured rates, the effective federal funds rate remained unchanged relative to the interest rate on reserve balances.

In domestic credit markets, borrowing costs generally declined but remained elevated relative to their average post–Global Financial Crisis (GFC) levels. Yields on corporate bonds decreased moderately, while yields on leveraged loans were little changed on net. Interest rates on commercial and industrial (C&I) and short-term business loans remained elevated relative to their post-GFC averages. Rates on 30-year fixed-rate conforming residential mortgages declined moderately, on net, and remained elevated. Yields on higher-rated tranches of commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS) moved down modestly, and those on lower-rated tranches of non-agency CMBS declined notably. Interest rates on existing credit card accounts continued to tick up through June, while offer rates on new credit cards were little changed.

Financing from capital markets remained broadly available for medium-sized and large businesses. Gross issuance of nonfinancial corporate bonds across credit categories continued at a strong pace in July and August, and issuance of leveraged loans was robust in recent months. Lending in private credit markets continued at a solid pace in July. After relatively strong growth in the second quarter, C&I loan balances on banks' books also continued to grow at a solid pace in July and August. Commercial real estate (CRE) loans continued to grow at a modest pace in July and August.

Credit remained available for most businesses, households, and municipalities, while credit continued to be relatively tight for small businesses and households with lower credit scores. In the residential mortgage market, credit remained easily available for high-credit-score borrowers who met standard conforming loan criteria but generally tight for low-credit-score borrowers. While consumer credit remained generally available for most households, the growth of revolving credit and auto loans was relatively weak in the second quarter.

Credit quality was generally stable at levels somewhat weaker than during the pre-pandemic period. The credit performance of corporate bonds and leveraged loans remained generally stable, though the default rate for leveraged loans that includes distressed exchanges continued to be elevated. Delinquency rates on small business loans in June and July ticked up and were moderately above pre-pandemic levels. In the CRE market, CMBS delinquency rates remained elevated through August. Regarding household credit quality, the delinquency rates on Federal Housing Administration mortgages remained at the upper end of their range over the past few years. By contrast, delinquency rates on most other mortgage loan types stayed near historical lows. In the second quarter, credit card and auto loan delinquency rates remained at elevated levels but were little changed.