The information available at the time of the meeting indicated that real gross domestic product (GDP) growth had moderated in the first half of the year. Although the unemployment rate continued to be low, the pace of employment increases had slowed, and labor market conditions had softened. Consumer price inflation remained somewhat elevated.

Total consumer price inflation—as measured by the 12-month change in the PCE price index—was estimated to have been 2.7 percent in August, based on the data from the consumer and producer price indexes. Core PCE price inflation, which excludes changes in consumer energy prices and many consumer food prices, was estimated to have been 2.9 percent in August. Both inflation rates were at the upper end of their ranges since the beginning of the year.

Recent data indicated that labor market conditions had softened. The unemployment rate edged up to 4.3 percent in August, a little higher than it had been at the beginning of the year. The participation rate was somewhat lower in August than it was at the beginning of the year. Average monthly increases in total nonfarm payrolls over July and August were weak, and job gains were revised down notably in May and June. The Bureau of Labor Statistics' (BLS) preliminary estimate of the benchmark revision for April 2024 through March 2025 indicated that the level of payrolls for March was more than 900,000 lower than had been reported. The ratio of job vacancies to unemployed workers was 1.0 in August and remained within the narrow range seen over the past year. The employment cost index of hourly compensation for private-sector workers increased 3.5 percent over the 12 months ending in June, and average hourly earnings for all employees rose 3.7 percent over the 12 months ending in August. Both wage growth measures were lower than their year-earlier levels.

Real GDP rose in the second quarter after declining in the first quarter, but GDP growth over the first half as a whole was slower than last year. Growth of real private domestic final purchases (PDFP)—which comprises PCE and private fixed investment and which often provides a better signal than GDP of underlying economic momentum—had also moderated in the first half relative to last year. Recent indicators for consumer spending and business investment spending—particularly for high-tech equipment and software—pointed to further moderate gains in PDFP in the third quarter, but housing-sector activity remained weak. After falling sharply in the second quarter, real imports of goods increased in July, particularly for capital goods. By contrast, exports edged down in July, following modest increases over the first half of the year.

Foreign GDP growth slowed markedly in the second quarter, as the transitory boost due to the front-loading of U.S. imports earlier in the year faded. Canadian economic activity contracted significantly, as exports of price-sensitive industrial supplies fell sharply in the face of higher U.S. tariffs. Economic growth in Mexico and parts of Asia was supported by strong demand for high-tech products.

Headline inflation was near central banks' targets in most foreign economies, aided by past declines in energy prices. However, core inflation remained persistently elevated in some economies, such as Brazil, Mexico, and the U.K. By contrast, inflation in China continued to be subdued. Several foreign central banks—including the European Central Bank—held their policy rates steady, while others—such as the Reserve Bank of New Zealand and the Reserve Bank of Australia—resumed reducing their policy rates, as disinflation continued.