In their discussions of monetary policy for this meeting, members agreed that recent indicators suggested that growth of economic activity had moderated in the first half of the year. To reflect developments in the labor market, they agreed to no longer characterize labor market conditions as solid and instead state that job gains had slowed and that the unemployment rate had edged up but remained low. Members concurred that inflation remained somewhat elevated and agreed to add that inflation had moved up. They agreed that the Committee was attentive to the risks to both sides of its dual mandate and to add that downside risks to employment had risen to reflect their concerns about the labor market.

In support of the Committee's goals and in light of the shift in the balance of risks, almost all members agreed to lower the target range for the federal funds rate 1/4 percentage point to 4 to 4-1/4 percent. One member voted against that decision, preferring to lower the target range 1/2 percentage point at this meeting. Members agreed that, in considering additional adjustments to the target range for the federal funds rate, the Committee would carefully assess incoming data, the evolving outlook, and the balance of risks. All members agreed that the postmeeting statement should affirm their strong commitment both to supporting maximum employment and to returning inflation to the Committee's 2 percent objective.

Members agreed that, in assessing the appropriate stance of monetary policy, the Committee would continue to monitor the implications of incoming information for the economic outlook. They would be prepared to adjust the stance of monetary policy as appropriate if risks emerged that could impede the attainment of the Committee's goals. Members also agreed that their assessments would take into account a wide range of information, including readings on labor market conditions, inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and financial and international developments.

At the conclusion of the discussion, the Committee voted to direct the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, until instructed otherwise, to execute transactions in the SOMA in accordance with the following domestic policy directive, for release at 2:00 p.m.:

"Effective September 18, 2025, the Federal Open Market Committee directs the Desk to:

The vote also encompassed approval of the statement below for release at 2:00 p.m.:

"Recent indicators suggest that growth of economic activity moderated in the first half of the year. Job gains have slowed, and the unemployment rate has edged up but remains low. Inflation has moved up and remains somewhat elevated.

The Committee seeks to achieve maximum employment and inflation at the rate of 2 percent over the longer run. Uncertainty about the economic outlook remains elevated. The Committee is attentive to the risks to both sides of its dual mandate and judges that downside risks to employment have risen.

In support of its goals and in light of the shift in the balance of risks, the Committee decided to lower the target range for the federal funds rate by 1/4 percentage point to 4 to 4-1/4 percent. In considering additional adjustments to the target range for the federal funds rate, the Committee will carefully assess incoming data, the evolving outlook, and the balance of risks. The Committee will continue reducing its holdings of Treasury securities and agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities. The Committee is strongly committed to supporting maximum employment and returning inflation to its 2 percent objective.

In assessing the appropriate stance of monetary policy, the Committee will continue to monitor the implications of incoming information for the economic outlook. The Committee would be prepared to adjust the stance of monetary policy as appropriate if risks emerge that could impede the attainment of the Committee's goals. The Committee's assessments will take into account a wide range of information, including readings on labor market conditions, inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and financial and international developments."