The deputy manager turned first to an overview of financial market developments during the intermeeting period. Markets appeared to interpret data releases and FOMC communications as indicating that the baseline outlook was little changed but that downside risks to the labor market had increased. Median modal expectations for personal consumption expenditures (PCE) inflation this year and next from the Open Market Desk's Survey of Market Expectations (Desk survey) increased only slightly, and expectations for the unemployment rate increased only marginally overall. However, after the weaker-than-expected July and August employment reports, investors' focus shifted to downside risks to the labor market.

Near-term expectations for the policy rate had moved lower in response to weaker-than-expected employment data and the apparent rise in downside employment risks. Almost all respondents to the Desk survey expected a 25 basis point cut in the target range for the federal funds rate at this meeting, and around half expected an additional cut at the October meeting. The vast majority of survey respondents expected at least two 25 basis point cuts by year-end, with around half expecting three cuts over that time. Respondents' expectations for 2027 and beyond were unchanged, implying that revisions to respondents' near-term expectations reflected an anticipation of a faster return of the federal funds rate to its longer-run level than previously expected. Market-based measures of policy rate expectations were broadly consistent with responses to the Desk survey, reflecting about three 25 basis point cuts by the end of the year.

The deputy manager then discussed developments in Treasury markets and market-based measures of inflation compensation. Nominal Treasury yields fell 20 to 40 basis points over the intermeeting period, with the largest decline occurring at the short end of the yield curve; the curve therefore steepened. Staff models indicated that nearly all the decline in short-term rates was attributable to the shift down in policy rate expectations. Market-based measures of inflation compensation fell slightly over the intermeeting period.

Equity prices continued to rise over the intermeeting period and stood very close to record highs despite the recent weaker-than-expected employment reports. The deputy manager noted this development was consistent with the benign baseline macroeconomic outlook incorporated in most private-sector forecasts and strong realized earnings in technology and other sectors. Corporate bond spreads were little changed over the intermeeting period and remained at tight levels, signaling that investors anticipated relatively moderate credit losses.

Regarding foreign exchange developments, the deputy manager noted that the broad trade-weighted dollar index had generally stabilized and that the dollar returned to trading roughly in line with fundamental macroeconomic drivers over the intermeeting period. The available data continued to suggest foreign demand for U.S. assets remained resilient.

The deputy manager turned next to money markets. The effective federal funds rate remained stable, and repurchase agreement (repo) rates moved higher over the intermeeting period. The increase in repo rates over the period was driven by the increase in net Treasury bill issuance amid the rebuilding of the Treasury General Account (TGA) following the debt ceiling resolution, continued large Treasury coupon issuance, and ongoing reductions in the Federal Reserve's balance sheet. Reserves fell sharply on September 15 in response to an increase in the TGA, driven by tax receipts and significant net issuance of Treasury coupon securities. Repo rates came under additional upward pressure that day, and take-up at the standing repo facility (SRF) reached $1.5 billion. There were some signs of slight upward pressure on rates in the federal funds market but not enough to move the effective federal funds rate. While key indicators remained consistent with abundant reserves, money market rates were expected to continue to increase over time relative to administered rates and to eventually pull the effective federal funds rate higher.

The deputy manager concluded by discussing the trajectory of the balance sheet. If balance sheet runoff were to continue at the current pace, the System Open Market Account (SOMA) portfolio was expected to decline to just over $6 trillion by the end of March, with Federal Reserve notes growing at a gradual pace, the TGA fluctuating around current levels, and usage of the overnight reverse repurchase agreement (ON RRP) facility remaining very low except on quarter-end dates. As a result, the deputy manager expected reserves to be close to the $2.8 trillion range by the end of the first quarter of next year if runoff were to continue at the current pace.

All but one member of the Committee voted to ratify the Desk's domestic transactions over the intermeeting period. Governor Stephen Miran, who had been sworn in as a member of the Board that morning, abstained from voting. There were no intervention operations in foreign currencies for the System's account during the intermeeting period.