In the Committee’s discussion of current and prospective developments, the members generally expressed assessments that economic expansion in the neighborhood of the rate of growth of the economy’s potential appeared to have become even more firmly established over recent months, despite the drag from higher energy prices. Recent data and anecdotal information suggested that spending by businesses and households had been reasonably robust of late, supported by accommodative financial conditions, continuing gains in productivity, and increasing employment. Looking forward, economic fundamentals appeared to be favorable for continued solid growth, and while fiscal stimulus would abate next year, a flattening out of energy prices, as markets seemed to anticipate, would bolster economic expansion. However, significant uncertainties surrounded the prospects for energy prices and fiscal policy, as well as the external sector. The Committee anticipated that underlying inflation pressures would remain contained as monetary accommodation was withdrawn. Core consumer price inflation had been quite damped on average in recent months and longer-term inflation expectations remained well anchored, despite further increases in energy prices and prospective increases in near-term headline inflation.

In their discussion of key sectors of the economy, policymakers noted that business investment had been expanding robustly and was likely to continue to be buoyed by the strength of productivity and profits. Some sectors, such as trucks and heavy equipment, had experienced rapid growth. However, even after taking account of likely effects of higher oil prices, the pace of overall business investment spending was still boosting GDP growth somewhat less than might have been expected given accommodative financial conditions and tax incentives. Some uncertainties, such as those associated with the election, had been resolved, but others persisted, including the prospects for oil prices and their consequences for the economy. Many business firms seemed hesitant about large-scale investment to increase productive capacity and hiring commitments, perhaps partly reflecting an environment of greater scrutiny regarding corporate governance and internal control systems. The high-tech sector, and investment in information technology more generally, had been growing less rapidly of late and was seen as posing a possible downside risk to the outlook. If the recent slower rate of price declines on high-tech products implied a softer underlying pace of technological change, both the outlook for investment demand and the prospects for persisting high trend growth in productivity could be damped relative to previous expectations.

While acknowledging data indicating a rebound in consumption spending in recent months, Committee members reported contacts with retail merchants that suggested mixed readings on the ongoing pace of consumer buying. The effect of higher energy prices on real incomes was likely still restraining consumer spending. Moreover, the stock of automobiles owned by households had risen substantially in recent years, and the willingness of households to purchase autos was seen as continuing to depend importantly on the provision of incentives by manufacturers. Home buying and residential construction generally remained robust, although a few members pointed to some moderation in activity in selected markets. It was noted that a slowdown in the rate of increase in home prices going forward might lead households to increase their desired saving. However, the risk of any significant drop-off in the growth of consumer spending would likely diminish with a sustained rebound in the pace of hiring.

In their comments on fiscal policy, Committee members indicated an expectation that the economic stimulus provided in recent years by discretionary fiscal measures was likely to fade next year. However, considerable uncertainty surrounded the likely evolution of the federal budget. Members stressed the importance of fiscal discipline to facilitate a better balance between net national saving and investment and thereby promote an adjustment of the imbalance in the current account of the balance of payments.

Committee members noted that the balance of trade had improved a little in September and commented that the decline in the value of the dollar over the past few years had been boosting demand seen by some exporting firms. However, with foreign economic growth moderating and the large excess of imports over exports, members generally viewed the prospects for net exports as likely to provide a continuing drag on U.S. economic expansion. One implication of this outlook was that U.S. external indebtedness relative to GDP would be increasing further.

Committee members remarked on signs of improvement in labor market conditions. While acknowledging the need to be cautious about readings from a single labor market report, members saw the increase in payroll employment in October and the upward revisions to previous months as encouraging. Furthermore, business contacts in several regions were indicating greater difficulty in filling some types of positions, both skilled and unskilled. Nevertheless, many firms evidently remained slow to expand hiring, in part because of rising benefit costs. One member commented on the performance of a few key industries, citing evidence that the job losses since the business cycle peak had been driven primarily by weak demand rather than productivity improvements. Although the extent of economic slack was uncertain, some members indicated a sense that the economy needed to grow faster than trend in order to take up remaining unused resources.

Wage and price pressures were generally still modest. While some firms reportedly were finding it easier to pass higher oil and other commodity costs on to their business customers, most business contacts indicated considerable difficulty in passing cost increases on to consumers. Longer-term inflation expectations had remained reasonably low, helping to restrain the spillover of elevated energy prices to the prices of other goods and services. Some members noted that any remaining resource slack would probably exert downward pressure on inflation and that the depreciation of the dollar seemed to be having a muted effect on import prices to date. However, upside risks to the inflation outlook included possible further depreciation of the dollar or increases in energy prices. In addition, a few members cited the possibility that the elevated pace of trend productivity growth experienced since the mid-1990s would begin to slow.

In the Committee’s discussion of the setting of policy, all of the members favored raising the target for the federal funds rate by 25 basis points to 2 percent at this meeting. The economy appeared to be continuing to expand at a moderate pace that was likely to be rapid enough to gradually reduce margins of underutilized resources. In that regard, the Committee was encouraged by more evident signs of improvement in hiring. The Committee felt that the outlook justified the further removal of the policy accommodation that had been appropriate when the economic expansion was more tentative. Today’s action would move the real funds rate, measured using core PCE inflation, toward a more positive setting.

In discussing the FOMC announcement for this meeting and going forward, several members commented that policy actions would likely become increasingly dependent on incoming data and their implications for future activity and prices. This might imply a more gradual path of tightening going forward than that of the last several months, as for example now seemed to be built into the term structure of interest rates, or it might mean that the Committee on occasion would need to firm policy more rapidly. A few members felt that, because of greater uncertainties, it might become appropriate eventually to move away from the recent practice of providing guidance about the likely future path of policy, while others emphasized the desirability of continuing to be as informative as possible about the Committee’s perceived outlook. For now, most members agreed that the current statement language provided considerable flexibility with regard to the Committee’s future actions and that market participants understood that flexibility. As regards the announcement to be released after the meeting, most members felt that little change in the statement language was required. Policymakers concurred that the statement should indicate that output appears to be growing at a moderate pace despite the rise in energy prices, that labor market conditions have improved, and that inflation and longer-term inflation expectations remain well contained. They agreed to characterize the risks to sustainable growth and price stability as balanced and to reiterate that policy accommodation could be removed at a pace that was likely to be measured but that the Committee will respond to changes in economic prospects as needed to maintain price stability.