At its meeting of September 21, 2004, the Federal Open Market Committee adopted a directive that called for conditions in reserves markets consistent with increasing the federal funds rate to an average of around 1-¾ percent. In its public statement, the Committee expressed a belief that monetary policy remained accommodative even after this tightening, and judged the upside and downside risks to the attainment of both sustainable growth and price stability over the next few quarters to be roughly equal. The Committee noted its expectation that the underlying rate of inflation would continue to be low and that policy accommodation could be removed at a pace that is likely to be measured, but also stated that it would nonetheless respond to changes in economic prospects as needed to fulfill its obligation to maintain price stability.

The FOMC’s decision in September to raise the intended level of the federal funds rate 25 basis points and its attendant public statement were anticipated by the market, and the reaction was muted. Over subsequent weeks, however, a reference in the minutes of the August FOMC meeting to the need for "significant cumulative tightening" and comments by the Chairman and other FOMC members, which were read as minimizing the likely damping effect on the economy of higher energy prices, led markets to raise their expectations of forthcoming policy tightenings. These expectations were boosted further by the release of the strong employment data for October. The shift in the market’s outlook for monetary policy contributed to noticeable upward pressure on short-term interest rates, and most long-term rates also moved up. Yields on investment-grade corporate bonds rose about in line with those on comparable-maturity Treasuries, but yields on speculative-grade bonds edged down and equity markets posted strong advances. In foreign exchange markets, the dollar declined appreciably, apparently in part on continuing market concerns about the financing of the U.S. current account deficit.

M2 expanded in October at about the sluggish pace of the third quarter. The growth of M2 was restrained in recent months by increases in its opportunity cost. Rates paid on its liquid asset components have lagged increases in market rates associated with the three monetary tightenings since midyear.