The information received at this meeting suggested that the economy expanded at a moderate pace over the third quarter. Low interest rates helped to maintain a buoyant housing market and spending by both consumers and businesses was firm. Available information suggested that the recent tempo of economic activity continued into the current quarter despite the restraint imparted on real incomes and consumer confidence from higher oil prices. However, industrial production was flat in recent months, and hiring activity was lackluster through September before advancing sharply in October. Inflation measures continued at low levels through September.

Employment gains were subdued in the third quarter, but showed substantial strength in October. Job growth last month was fairly widespread, although heavy hiring in the construction sector was due partly to efforts to repair damage from the four hurricanes that hit the southeastern states. Employment increases were particularly large in the financial and services sectors. However, a small decline was registered in employment in the manufacturing sector. The average workweek held steady in October at its third-quarter level and was a bit above the average for the second quarter. Despite the strong increase in payroll employment, the household survey indicated a slight increase in the unemployment rate to 5.5 percent in October.

Industrial production was about unchanged in September, likely restrained by the hurricanes that month. A decline in manufacturing was about offset by a jump in utilities output and expansion in high-tech industries. The available data suggested that industrial production rebounded in October. Capacity utilization was unchanged in September at about the third-quarter average but was up from its level earlier in the year.

Consumer spending advanced strongly in the third quarter from the sluggish pace of the second quarter. The acceleration reflected a surge in expenditures on motor vehicles that owed partly to attractive incentives, but spending on other durables and nondurables was also up. Spending on services was steady for the third quarter on average, but advanced in September on a boost to electricity consumption related to unseasonably warm weather. Real disposable income slowed in the third quarter to a moderate pace and was flat in September, probably in part because of effects of the hurricanes. Measures of consumer confidence moved down in September and again in October. Activity in housing markets remained generally strong in September, supported by favorable mortgage rates. Although starts of single-family homes slowed to well below the level of preceding months, multifamily starts rose and sales of both existing and new homes were elevated.

Business investment spending on equipment and software continued to expand at a rapid pace in the third quarter, supported by positive fundamentals that included robust business output, low interest rates and readily available credit, and healthy business balance sheets. Outlays for high-tech equipment and software stepped down in the third quarter, but spending on other types of equipment, including transportation, was at a high level. At the same time, investment in nonresidential structures, which had turned up in the second quarter, softened in the third quarter. Construction spending for retail buildings and warehouses advanced, but high vacancy rates for office buildings held back investment in that sector.

Accumulation of nonfarm inventories excluding motor vehicles picked up smartly over the third quarter. The level of sales also rose, however, keeping inventory-sales ratios fairly steady at low levels.

The U.S. international trade deficit rose in the third quarter on average, reflecting some weakening in the growth of service exports and an increase in the price and quantity of petroleum imports. The deficit narrowed in September, however, as imports fell while exports expanded moderately. The lower level of imports in September mainly reflected declines in the petroleum and services categories. Economic expansion abroad on average appeared to slow in the third quarter, although it remained solid.

Consumer prices continued to advance at a moderate rate in recent months, although both overall and core consumer price measures rose a bit faster in the twelve months ending in September 2004 than in the year-earlier period. Expectations of near-term inflation picked up in October, consistent with the increase in energy prices. Labor costs continued to rise moderately. The increase in the employment cost index for private compensation over the third quarter was a bit below the average pace of the last two years.