The information reviewed at the meeting suggested that the growth of economic activity in the second quarter slowed from its rapid pace in the first quarter. Residential investment contracted as activity in the housing market continued to cool. Consumer spending and business investment decelerated after posting substantial increases in the first quarter. The demand for labor moderated, with hiring in recent months below the pace of earlier this year. Consumer price inflation remained elevated in July, reflecting further increases in energy prices and shelter costs.

Nonfarm payrolls increased in June and July, but more slowly than in the first quarter. The moderation in hiring was most pronounced in retail trade but was also evident in construction and non-business services. Establishments in professional and business services continued to add jobs at roughly the same pace as that of earlier in the year. Average hours of production or nonsupervisory workers on private nonfarm payrolls edged up. The unemployment rate rose to 4.8 percent in July, above its average over the first half of the year.

Industrial production picked up in June. For the second quarter as a whole, it grew at a robust rate that was faster than its first-quarter pace. Gains in manufacturing production were widespread across industries. The mining sector, which includes oil and natural gas extraction, expanded solidly in June, although average growth in the second quarter was below that of the first quarter, in part because the recovery from the disruptions caused by last year’s hurricanes neared completion. Utilities output grew strongly in the second quarter. The rate of capacity utilization in the manufacturing sector stepped up in June and remained above its long-run average.

The growth of consumer spending slowed considerably in the second quarter after the surge in purchases around the turn of the year. Spending on goods excluding motor vehicles posted a modest increase in June after remaining flat, on average, over the previous four months. Although nominal wages and salaries rose briskly in the first half of the year, gains in real disposable income were held down by rising consumer prices. While past gains in household wealth, particularly from home prices, supported consumer spending, higher interest rates and energy prices were likely a restraining influence. Indicators of consumer sentiment for July were mixed.

Residential construction activity contracted in the second quarter. Single-family starts declined in June to a level well below the average of the previous twelve months. Construction in the multifamily sector remained steady, with starts in June well within the typical range seen since 1995. Sales of both new and existing single-family homes slowed in June and were significantly below their peaks of the summer of 2005. Available measures of house prices indicated that price increases had moderated over the past four quarters.

After surging in the first quarter, real spending on equipment and software edged down in the second quarter. The decline was accounted for primarily by a drop in expenditures on communications and transportation equipment. Spending on high-tech equipment and software declined as well. The construction of nonresidential buildings moved up at a solid pace over the first half of the year, although activity remained well short of its previous peak in mid-2000. Outlays on drilling and mining structures continued to climb in response to high energy prices, and spending on office construction edged up as vacancy rates continued to trend down. Overall, economic fundamentals and business sentiment continued to support increased investment.

The book value of manufacturing and trade inventories excluding motor vehicles rose in May, and real nonfarm inventories excluding motor vehicles appeared to be slightly higher in the second quarter than earlier in the year. The ratio of book-value inventories to sales edged down in May in both the trade and manufacturing sectors after having remained relatively steady over the previous three months. In the manufacturing sector, however, inventories ticked up again in June. In general, inventories appeared to be well aligned with demand, and business surveys suggested that firms were comfortable with the level of inventories.

The U.S. international trade deficit widened in May, reflecting a sharp increase in imports that more than offset a sizable gain in exports. Import growth was heavily concentrated in oil, reflecting both higher prices and quantities; other categories of imports fell on balance. Exports rose across almost all major product categories; the largest gains were in consumer goods and capital goods, especially aircraft. Expansion of economic activity in the advanced foreign economies appeared to continue in the second quarter at a pace roughly comparable to that of the first quarter, on net. Incoming data for the second quarter pointed to a pickup in economic growth in the euro area and Japan but indicated that growth slowed somewhat in Canada. Recent economic indicators from the developing economies were mixed but, in general, suggested some moderation in growth from the rapid first-quarter pace.

Headline inflation continued to move up, on balance, in recent months, and consumer prices increased at a faster pace in the second quarter than over the previous twelve months. Consumer energy prices, while declining slightly in June, surged during the second quarter, on net. Core consumer prices also continued to rise, boosted by an acceleration in shelter costs, particularly those for owner-occupied residences, and some pass-through of energy cost increases. Higher oil prices showed through in producer prices for a variety of energy-intensive intermediate goods. Rising import prices, higher domestic rates of capacity utilization, and strong global demand for materials were factors underlying an acceleration in core prices for intermediate materials. The price of crude oil increased further over the intermeeting period, and strong weather-related demand caused the price of natural gas to rise considerably. The employment cost index rose somewhat faster in the second quarter than over the preceding three months, but the twelve-month change was less than that of a year ago. Survey measures of households’ inflation expectations in June and July reversed their increases in April and May.

At its June meeting, the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) decided to raise its target for the federal funds rate 25 basis points, to 5¼ percent. The Committee's accompanying statement indicated that economic growth had been moderating from its quite strong pace earlier in the year, partly reflecting a gradual cooling of the housing market and the lagged effects of increases in interest rates and energy prices. Readings on core inflation had been elevated in recent months, but ongoing productivity gains had held down the rise in unit labor costs, and inflation expectations remained contained. However, high levels of resource utilization and the high prices for energy and other commodities had the potential to sustain inflation pressures. Although the moderation in the growth of aggregate demand would help limit inflation pressures over time, the Committee judged that some inflation risks remained. The extent and timing of any additional firming would depend on the evolution of the economic outlook as implied by incoming information.