At its meeting on January 27-28, 2004, the Federal Open Market Committee decided to leave its target for the federal funds rate unchanged at 1 percent. The Committee also retained its assessment that the upside and downside risks to the attainment of sustainable growth were roughly equal as well as its judgment that the probability of an unwelcome fall in inflation had diminished and was almost equal to that of a rise in inflation. With inflation low and resource use slack, the Committee saw no need for tightening policy in the near future. However, to provide additional flexibility to adjust monetary policy at a later date once such action was deemed appropriate given economic developments, the Committee removed from its post-meeting statement the explicit reference to a "considerable period" and substituted a statement that conveyed the sense that it could be patient in removing its policy accommodation.

Although the Committee's decision at the January meeting to keep the federal funds rate unchanged had been widely anticipated, the changes in the wording of the accompanying statement elicited a sharp reaction in financial markets. Investors moved up the date when they expected policy tightening to commence, resulting in a jump in Treasury yields. Over the balance of the intermeeting period, however, the Chairman's testimony on monetary policy and data on nonfarm payroll employment with a weakish cast persuaded investors that policy tightening was still some ways off. Treasury yields declined considerably in response and ended the intermeeting period lower, on balance. Yields on inflation-indexed securities also fell, leaving measures of inflation compensation little changed.

Yields on investment-grade bonds generally moved in tandem with those on Treasuries over the intermeeting period, but spreads on high-yield bonds widened as investors reassessed credit risks in light of the negative tone of some incoming economic data. The disappointing employment data and renewed concerns about terrorism contributed to a decline in broad equity price indexes. Technology-related issues, which had registered very large gains over the preceding year or so, fell more sharply. The foreign exchange value of the dollar against other major currencies declined through the middle of February but subsequently rebounded to end the intermeeting period higher.

After four consecutive months of decline, M2 rose slightly in January and accelerated markedly in February. The effects of mortgage refinancing, which had depressed M2 growth in the second half of last year, appeared to wane, allowing the expansion in nominal income to show through to M2 growth.