The information reviewed at this meeting suggested that economic activity continued to expand at a solid pace in early 2004. Consumer spending growth appeared to have picked up somewhat, and activity in the housing market remained at high levels. In the business sector, spending for equipment and software was apparently advancing vigorously, and firms were adding modestly to their inventories. Still, the increases in economic activity had not yet generated sizable gains in employment. Core consumer price inflation remained low, and expectations of future inflation continued to be subdued.

The January and February employment reports depicted a labor market that was slow to pick up momentum. The modest gains posted in private nonfarm payrolls over the period were smaller than had been expected by most forecasters. Employment in the manufacturing sector, which had fallen continually for over three years, was essentially unchanged in February, while employment in other sectors showed mixed changes. Average weekly hours of production or nonsupervisory workers edged above the average level of the fourth quarter of 2003. Despite the weakness in employment, the unemployment rate in January and February came in below its fourth-quarter level.

Industrial production moved up briskly in January and February following strong increases in the fourth quarter. These gains in production were realized across a wide set of industries. High-tech industries, including semiconductors, computers, and communications equipment, posted particularly strong advances, while the production of motor vehicles and the output of other manufacturing sectors were also strong. Outside the manufacturing sector, power generation by utilities surged in January but fell back in February in response to outsized swings in average temperatures during those months. Capacity utilization continued to move higher in January and February, although it remained below its longer-run average.

Consumer spending growth in recent months appeared to pick up somewhat from its pace in the fourth quarter of 2003. Retail sales rose briskly, on average, in January and February, and spending on services was up in January (the most recent month for which data were available). In contrast, purchases of motor vehicles slipped in January and February from the strong pace in the fourth quarter. Overall, expenditures were supported by sizable gains in real disposable personal income and increases in household wealth owing to rising home and equity prices. Disposable income was boosted by significant growth in private wages and salaries and by a drop in taxes that was due to the lower final payments and higher refunds associated with last year's tax cut. Surveys indicated that consumer sentiment moved higher in January but subsequently fell back. Despite the pullback, sentiment remained above the levels seen during most of 2003.

Activity in the housing market moderated in January and February from its elevated pace in the fourth quarter. Single-family housing starts and permits stepped down, although both measures remained above their average levels of the first three quarters of 2003. Housing starts in the multifamily sector slipped only slightly from the fourth quarter pace, even though vacancy rates reached a record high level in the fourth quarter. Sales of new and existing homes slowed in January, but this change retraced only a small part of the extraordinary run-up in home sales that began last spring. Home prices continued to rise briskly.

Spending on capital goods had advanced at a vigorous pace in the fourth quarter and appeared to be continuing that growth early this year. Spending by businesses was supported by increases in their sales and the continuation of strong cash flows and a low user cost of capital. Nominal shipments of computing and communication equipment moved up sharply in recent months, as did shipments outside the high-tech sector. By contrast, business investment in transportation equipment was mixed. Data for new orders of nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft suggested that the strength in capital expenditures would continue going forward. As has been the case for some time, real spending on private nonresidential structures languished, and vacancies in industrial buildings and office properties were at high levels.

Real nonfarm inventory investment remained modest in recent months. Although manufacturers' inventories moved higher in January, that increase primarily reflected stockbuilding at producers of petroleum and coal products. Retail inventories also rose in January, as stocks at auto dealers increased; wholesalers accumulated inventories at a modest pace. Inventory-sales ratios in these sectors lingered at or near their historical lows.

The U.S. international trade deficit rose to a record high level in January. Exports of goods and services fell, owing importantly to a drop in agricultural exports. Imports edged lower, with higher oil imports partly offsetting declines in most other categories. Recent data suggested that economic activity in major foreign industrial countries strengthened outside the euro area, notably including a sizable jump in Japan's output in the fourth quarter. Growth in the euro area remained tepid.

Core consumer price inflation stayed very low in early 2004. Over the twelve months ending in January, the increase in core consumer prices was around 1 percent--about ¾ percentage point below the increase over the preceding twelve months. Total consumer price inflation, however, was boosted in January by a surge in energy prices. Incoming information on trends in labor costs were more mixed. The average hourly earnings of production or nonsupervisory workers on private nonfarm payrolls rose modestly over the twelve months ending in February, decelerating from its year-earlier pace. By contrast, the employment cost index for hourly compensation in private industry grew a bit faster over the twelve months ending in December than over the year-earlier period.