In the Committee's discussion of current and prospective economic developments, the members noted that overall economic activity still seemed to be increasing at a solid pace, though perhaps not quite as quickly as some members had anticipated at the time of the January meeting. Investment spending had continued to advance, and the manufacturing sector, which had lagged the rest of the economy earlier in the expansion, had extended recent gains. Residential construction activity was down somewhat from the very high levels posted late last year, but increases in household wealth and the effects of last year's tax cuts continued to buoy consumer spending. Despite the gains in spending and production, however, employment growth had been disappointing. While job losses had moderated, hiring had yet to strengthen, holding down net increases in employment. Nonetheless, the breadth of the expansion was seen as providing considerable assurance of its sustainability, and Committee members generally expected that accommodative monetary policy, favorable financial market conditions, and, at least in the near term, fiscal stimulus would continue to foster a pace of output growth that exceeded that of its potential. Although economic slack likely would be declining, it was expected to be a little higher than previously had been anticipated. Prices for energy, commodities, and non-oil imports were rising, however, and some business contacts had reported seeing a return of "pricing power." On balance, inflation was expected to remain near its current low level.

In their discussion of economic developments across the nation, a number of Committee members noted some slippage in business and consumer confidence from the high levels reached late last year. While business contacts in some regions remained optimistic about prospects for their sales and planned to increase investment and, in some cases, employment, firms in other parts of the country had become somewhat more uncertain about the pace of the expansion going forward. Those firms, as a result, were more wary about committing to new investment plans or increased hiring. Financial markets also seemed a little less positive about the outlook, with stock prices lower and some risk spreads wider than at the time of the last meeting. The reasons for the reduced optimism were not entirely clear but may have included higher energy and commodity prices as well as renewed concerns about terrorism. Some members also pointed to the persistent weakness in employment, which might be seen as reducing the odds that household spending would continue to expand briskly once the stimulative effects of tax cuts waned. Lingering business caution likely accounted for a good deal of the lag in job creation, but some members also pointed to a number of other factors that might be restraining hiring, including ongoing opportunities to increase efficiency through organizational changes and new investments, the effects on labor costs of increases in the costs of benefits, and, in some selected industries and regions, a shortage of job candidates with appropriate skills. The extent and duration of the resulting restraint on hiring were difficult to assess, however, and the Committee continued to expect employment growth to pick up as the expansion progressed.

In their comments about demand in key sectors of the economy, members indicated that investment spending had continued to expand at a robust pace. Members anticipated vigorous growth in investment outlays going forward, supported by rapid productivity growth, high profits and cash flow, and accommodative financial markets. Despite this generally upbeat assessment, a number of members reported that firms were investing primarily to replace old equipment or to reduce costs, but remained hesitant to expand capacity. The commercial real estate sector remained weak, on balance, although some members suggested that market conditions were stabilizing and, in a few cases, even beginning to improve.

Committee members noted that activity in the housing sector, while still quite elevated, had fallen back from its extraordinary pace of late last year. However, some of the moderation may have owed to the effects of severe winter weather rather than more lasting influences, and the recent decline in mortgage interest rates was expected to support the housing sector going forward. Reports from some contacts suggested that speculative forces might be boosting housing demand in some parts of the country, with concomitant effects on prices, suggesting the possibility that house prices might be moving into the high end of the range that could be consistent with fundamentals.

Consumer spending outside the auto sector had remained strong, with data and retail contacts generally suggesting continued growth in sales this year. Committee members noted that sales had been bolstered by rising asset prices and the effects of last year's tax cuts on refunds and final payments. By contrast, sales of motor vehicles had fallen back noticeably, reflecting in part reductions in incentives. However, members anticipated that sales would pick up again, partly in response to an anticipated rebound in incentives. Looking forward, gains in employment and the pass-through of higher productivity to wages and salaries were also expected to boost consumer spending, even as the stimulus to growth from tax cuts faded and increases in home and equity prices likely slowed from their rapid pace in recent quarters.

The Committee anticipated that government spending would provide some further support for aggregate demand going forward. The budget pressures that had constrained state and local government expenditures of late were easing in some cases, and federal outlays were expected to rise. Fiscal policy was seen as providing less stimulus to aggregate demand in 2005 than this year, but the federal budget deficit was expected to remain substantial.

In their remarks concerning the external sector of the economy, members cited the decline in the value of the dollar on foreign exchange markets since the middle of last year and stronger economic growth in many of our trading partners as factors boosting the demand for exports in a variety of industries. While exports were likely to continue to advance, the value of U.S. imports was expected to rise as well, implying continued very large current account deficits. Some Committee members noted that opportunities to cut costs had led some of their business contacts to consider moving production abroad.

In their review of the outlook for prices, members generally anticipated that core inflation would remain near current low levels, with output growth only gradually eliminating slack in labor and goods markets and strong growth in productivity limiting increases in unit labor costs. Some members thought that core inflation had stabilized and was unlikely to move lower. Increases in the prices of energy, other commodities, and non-oil imports, as well as reports from some business contacts that higher costs were increasingly being passed through to prices, suggested that the downtrend in inflation had ended. Moreover, if, as some members thought likely, productivity growth slowed as employment picked up, the result could be reductions in slack accompanied by higher unit labor costs and associated pressures on prices. Other members were less certain that inflation had leveled out. Recent price trends were not clear, with some measures of core inflation still declining. Increases in commodity prices remained limited to a few selected industries, and with the persistence of slack in labor and product markets, core inflation might well edge lower once any transitory influences had ebbed. Moreover, if productivity were to expand at a rapid pace rather than slowing, unit labor costs could fall, putting downward pressure on prices.

In the Committee's discussion of policy for the intermeeting period, all the members favored the retention of the current target rate of 1 percent for the federal funds rate. This preference for an unaltered stance of policy was based on the absence of significant changes in economic conditions or in the members' basic assessment of the outlook since the January meeting. To be sure, some of the incoming information--notably with regard to labor market developments--had been somewhat disappointing, but the Committee continued to see the conditions in place for further solid economic growth. Similarly, despite the rise in energy and commodity prices and reports of increased pricing power in some sectors, many Committee members commented that persisting slack in labor and output markets would keep inflation low. In these circumstances, the current accommodative stance of monetary policy remained appropriate. Some members, while supporting an unchanged policy at this meeting, nonetheless emphasized that the maintenance of a very accommodative monetary policy over an extended period in concert with a stimulative fiscal policy called for careful attention to the possible emergence of inflationary pressures. And, while adjustments in financial markets to low rates had generally been consistent with the usual operation of the monetary transmission mechanism, some members were concerned that keeping monetary policy stimulative for so long might be encouraging increased leverage and excessive risk-taking. Such developments could heighten the potential for the emergence of financial and economic instability when policy tightening proved necessary in the future. At present, however, the persistence of low inflation coupled with soft labor markets underscored the desirability of a monetary policy strategy characterized by continued patience.

In the Committee's discussion of its statement to be released shortly after this meeting, the members saw merit in not changing the characterization of the risks to the outlook for inflation and economic activity. Many members held that a case could be made for moving to a balanced risk assessment with regard to the outlook for inflation, with a number of them expressing a marginal preference for such a change. However, other members thought the evidence for a balanced risk assessment was not yet compelling and pointed out that with inflation quite low and slack in labor and output markets likely to persist for a while longer, the costs to the economy associated with a further decline in inflation likely outweighed those associated with a comparable increase. While many viewed it as a close call, all members indicated that they could support a proposal to retain the existing wording involving a slight tilt toward the possibility of some further disinflation. The members also agreed on the desirability of retaining the assessment that the risks with regard to the outlook for economic growth were balanced. Accordingly, it was agreed that the only changes in the post-meeting statement would be to update the descriptions of the economic expansion and labor market conditions in light of the information received over the intermeeting period.