In conjunction with this FOMC meeting, all meeting participants-the four members of the Board of Governors and the presidents of the twelve Federal Reserve Banks-provided projections for economic growth, the unemployment rate, and consumer price inflation for each year from 2009 through 2011. To provide the public with information about their views of likely longer-term economic trends, and as additional context for the Committee's monetary policy discussions, participants agreed to collect and publish, on a quarterly basis, projections of the longer-run values to which they expect these three variables to converge. Participants' projections through 2011, and for the longer-run, are described in the Summary of Economic Projections that is attached as an addendum to these minutes.

In their discussion of the economic and financial situation and the outlook for the economy, participants agreed that the economy had weakened further going into 2009. The incoming data, as well as information received from contacts in the business and banking communities, indicated a sharp and widespread economic contraction both domestically and abroad, reflecting in large part the adverse effects of the intensification of the financial crisis and the interaction between deteriorating economic and financial conditions. Participants generally saw credit conditions as extremely tight, with financial markets fragile and some parts of the banking sector under substantial stress. However, modest signs of improvement were evident in some financial markets--particularly those that were receiving support from Federal Reserve liquidity facilities and other government actions. Participants anticipated that a gradual recovery in U.S. economic activity would begin during the third or fourth quarter of this year as the economy begins to respond to fiscal stimulus, relatively low energy prices, and continuing efforts to stabilize the financial sector and increase the availability of credit. Several participants noted that firms' efforts to control inventories as sales declined had contributed to the rapid downturn in production and employment in recent quarters, but expected that the resulting absence of widespread inventory overhangs might spur a prompt pickup in production in many sectors later this year once sales begin to level out or turn up. Headline inflation would pick up some as the effects of previous declines in oil and other commodity prices wore off. But in an environment of considerable economic slack, little if any inflation pressure from energy or other import prices, and possible declines in inflation expectations, headline and core inflation were expected to be quite low for several years. Participants were, however, quite uncertain about the outlook. All but a few saw the risks to growth as tilted to the downside; in light of financial stresses and tight credit conditions, they saw a significant risk that the economic recovery would be both delayed and initially quite weak. In particular, most participants saw the renewed deterioration in the banking sector's financial condition as posing a significant downside risk to the economic outlook absent additional initiatives to stabilize the banking system.

Participants noted that consumers were continuing to cut back expenditures in response to sharply declining employment, further declines in wealth, and tighter credit conditions. Some participants mentioned that business contacts had indicated that firms were reducing payrolls aggressively and also freezing wages and salaries, further restricting growth in personal income and thus probably damping consumer spending. Looking ahead, participants anticipated that tax cuts and some other elements of the proposed fiscal stimulus package would add to after-tax incomes and thus boost consumer spending, though the magnitude of the impetus was far from clear. For example, unless the cuts were clearly perceived to be permanent, the boost to consumer spending might prove short-lived, as was the case with the tax rebates distributed in the spring of 2008.

Participants saw no indication that the housing sector was beginning to stabilize. Though sales of existing homes appeared to have flattened out, a large fraction of those transactions seemed to have resulted from foreclosures or other forced sales; moreover, new home sales, housing starts, and permits all continued to decline steeply. Lower house prices and mortgage rates had increased housing affordability, but concerns that house prices may fall further appeared to be holding back potential buyers.

The pace of commercial construction also had slowed. A number of participants expressed concern that the commercial real estate sector could deteriorate sharply in the months ahead. They noted that a large number of commercial real estate mortgages will come due at a time when banks likely will still be facing balance-sheet constraints, the ability to securitize commercial real estate mortgages may remain severely restricted, and vacancy rates in commercial properties could well be climbing. Some participants worried that the outcome could be an increase in defaults on commercial real estate mortgages and forced sales of commercial properties, which could push prices down further and generate additional losses on banks' commercial real estate loan portfolios. However, the commercial real estate sector had expanded more moderately during the recent expansion than during the expansion of the late 1980s, suggesting that the downturn in the current cycle could be milder than that seen in the early 1990s.

Participants also noted that other categories of business investment were contracting; they expected the rapid contraction to continue in coming quarters. Equipment investment had declined particularly sharply, reflecting weak sales, tighter credit, and substantial uncertainty about future economic conditions and government policies. Lower energy and commodity prices, while supporting consumer spending, had reduced investment in oil, gas, and mineral extraction. Outside of the agricultural sector, business contacts had reported sizable cutbacks in their planned capital expenditures for 2009.

State and local government budgets had come under significant pressure as the slowing economy led to declining revenues. Several participants noted that governments in their regions were responding by cutting spending rather than supplementing revenues. The fiscal stimulus bill, which was being considered by the Congress as the Committee met, would support state and local government spending as well as boost federal spending, helping to buoy demands for goods and services. Participants generally thought that fiscal stimulus was a necessary and important complement to the steps the Federal Reserve and other agencies were taking, and that it would help foster economic recovery, but had questions about the details of the proposed legislation and the extent to which it would boost demands for and production of goods and services.

Participants indicated they had been surprised by the speed and magnitude of the slowdown in economic growth abroad and the resulting drop in demand for U.S. exports. It was noted that the surprisingly sharp decline in both U.S. exports and imports might also reflect tight credit conditions, including the reduced availability of trade credit. Moreover, participants did not expect foreign economies to rebound quickly, suggesting that net exports would not provide much support for U.S. economic activity in coming quarters.

Participants agreed that inflation pressures had diminished appreciably in recent quarters, and they expected significantly lower headline and core inflation during the next few years than during recent years. Indeed, most anticipated that inflation will slow for a time to rates somewhat lower than those they judge consistent with the dual goals of price stability and maximum employment, initially reflecting the recent declines in the prices of energy and other commodities and later responding to several years of substantial economic slack. Many participants noted some risk of a protracted period of excessively low inflation, especially if inflation expectations were to move down in response to lower actual inflation and increasing economic slack, and a few even saw some risk of deflation. Several others, however, anticipated that longer-run inflation expectations would remain well anchored, supported in part by the Federal Reserve's aggressive expansion of its balance sheet and the resulting growth of the monetary base, and therefore thought it unlikely that inflation would decline below levels they saw as consistent with the dual goals of price stability and maximum employment. Moreover, some noted a risk that expected inflation might actually increase to an undesirably high level if the public does not understand that the Federal Reserve's liquidity facilities will be wound down and its balance sheet will shrink as economic and financial conditions improve.

Several participants indicated that they thought the FOMC should explore establishing quantitative guidelines or targets for a monetary aggregate, perhaps the growth rate of the monetary base or M2; in their view such guidelines would provide useful information to the public and help anchor inflation expectations. Others were skeptical that a single quantitative measure could adequately convey the Federal Reserve's current approach to monetary policy because the stimulative effect of the Federal Reserve's liquidity-providing and asset-purchase programs depends not only on the scale but also on the mix of lending programs and securities purchases. In addition, a few participants noted that the sizes of some Federal Reserve liquidity programs are determined by banks' and market participants' need to use those programs and thus will tend to increase when financial conditions worsen and shrink when financial conditions improve; the size and composition of the Federal Reserve's balance sheet needs to be able to adjust in response.