On balance, U.S. financial conditions became somewhat more supportive of growth over the intermeeting period, and strains in global financial markets eased, as domestic and foreign economic data were generally better than market participants had expected and investors appeared to see diminished downside risks associated with the situation in Europe.

Measures of the expected path for the federal funds rate derived from overnight index swap (OIS) rates suggested that the near-term portion of the expected policy rate path was about unchanged, on balance, since the January FOMC meeting, but the path beyond the middle of 2014 shifted down a bit, reportedly reflecting in part the change in the forward rate guidance in the Committee's January statement. On balance, yields on Treasury securities were little changed over the intermeeting period. Indicators of inflation compensation over the next five years edged up, while changes in measures of longer-term inflation compensation were mixed.

Conditions in unsecured short-term dollar funding markets improved over the period, especially for financial institutions with European parents. The spread of the three-month London interbank offered rate (LIBOR) over the OIS rate narrowed. In addition, spreads of rates on asset-backed commercial paper over those on AA-rated nonfinancial paper decreased significantly, and the amounts outstanding from programs with European sponsors remained stable. Moreover, the average maturity of unsecured U.S. commercial paper issued by European banks lengthened somewhat over the intermeeting period.

Responses to the March 2012 Senior Credit Officer Opinion Survey on Dealer Financing Terms indicated little change, on balance, over the past three months in credit terms for important classes of counterparties. Demand for securities financing was reported to have risen somewhat across asset types, but dealers indicated that the risk appetite of most clients had changed relatively little over the previous three months.

Broad U.S. equity price indexes rose significantly over the intermeeting period; equity prices of large banking organizations increased about in line with the broader market. Aggregate earnings per share for firms in the Standard & Poor's 500 index declined in the fourth quarter, but profit margins for large corporations remained wide by historical standards. Reflecting a narrowing of spreads over yields on comparable-maturity Treasury securities, yields on investment- and speculative-grade corporate bonds continued to decline over the period, moving toward the low end of their historical ranges. Prices in the secondary market for syndicated leveraged loans moved up further, supported by continued strong demand from institutional investors. The spreads of yields on A2/P2-rated unsecured commercial paper issued by nonfinancial firms over yields on A1/P1-rated issues narrowed slightly on balance.

Bond issuance by financial firms was strong in January and February, likely reflecting in part the refinancing of maturing debt that had been issued during the financial crisis under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation's Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program. The issuance of bonds by domestic nonfinancial firms was solid in recent months, and indicators of credit quality remained firm. Growth of commercial and industrial (C&I) loans continued to be substantial and was widespread across domestic banks, though holdings of such loans at U.S. branches and agencies of European banks decreased further. Financing conditions in the commercial real estate sector continued to be tight, and issuance of commercial mortgage-backed securities remained low in the fourth quarter of last year. Gross public equity issuance by nonfinancial firms was still solid in January and February, boosted by continued strength in initial public offerings. Share repurchases and cash-financed mergers by nonfinancial firms maintained their strength in the fourth quarter, leading to a sharp decline in net equity issuance.

Although mortgage rates remained near their historical lows, conditions in residential mortgage markets generally remained depressed. Consumer credit rose in recent months, with the growth in nonrevolving credit led by continued rapid expansion of government-originated student loans. Issuance of consumer credit asset-backed securities remained at moderate levels in the fourth quarter of 2011 and in early 2012.

Gross long-term issuance of municipal bonds was subdued in the first two months of this year. Meanwhile, spreads on credit default swaps for debt issued by states were roughly flat over the intermeeting period.

Bank credit rose at a modest pace, on average, in January and February, mainly reflecting strong increases in securities holdings and C&I loans. Commercial real estate loans held by banks continued to decline, while noncore loans--a category that includes lending to nonbank financial institutions--grew at a slower pace than in previous months. The aggregate credit quality of loans on banks' books continued to improve across most asset classes in the fourth quarter.

M2 advanced at a rapid pace in January, apparently reflecting year-end effects, but its growth slowed in February. The rise in M2 was mainly attributable to continued strength in liquid deposits, reflecting investors' preferences for safe and liquid assets as well as very low yields on short-term instruments outside M2. Currency expanded robustly, and the monetary base also grew significantly over January and February.

Foreign equity markets ended the period higher, particularly in Japan, and benchmark sovereign bond yields declined. Spreads of yields on euro-area peripheral sovereign debt over those on German bunds generally continued to narrow, and foreign corporate credit spreads also declined further. The staff's broad nominal index of the foreign exchange value of the dollar moved down modestly over the intermeeting period.

Funding conditions for euro-area banks eased over the period, as the European Central Bank (ECB) conducted its second three-year refinancing operation and widened the pool of eligible collateral for refinancing operations. Spreads of three-month euro LIBOR over the OIS rate narrowed, on balance, and European banks' issuance of unsecured senior debt and covered bonds increased. Dollar funding pressures continued to diminish, and the implied cost of dollar funding through the foreign exchange swap market fell moderately further. Reflecting the improved conditions in funding markets, demand for dollars at ECB lending operations declined and the outstanding amounts drawn under the Federal Reserve's dollar liquidity swap lines with other foreign central banks remained small. Several other central banks in advanced and emerging market economies eased policy further. In particular, the Bank of England increased the size of its existing gilt purchase program in February, and the Bank of Japan scaled up its Asset Purchase Program. The Bank of Japan also introduced a 1 percent inflation goal.