The information reviewed at the September meeting indicated that economic activity decelerated considerably in recent months. The labor market deteriorated further in August as private payrolls declined and the unemployment rate moved markedly higher. Industrial output was little changed in July, but fell sharply in August. Consumer spending weakened noticeably in recent months. Meanwhile, residential investment continued to decline steeply through midyear. In contrast, business investment in equipment and structures generally held up through July. On the inflation front, overall consumer prices rose rapidly for a third straight month in July but then edged down in August, because of a sharp drop in energy prices. Core consumer price inflation remained elevated in July and eased somewhat in August.

The labor market continued to weaken. According to the August employment report, private payroll employment fell by a bit more than the average seen earlier this year. Most major industry groups shed jobs; manufacturing posted a particularly noticeable loss. Job losses in the construction industry diminished over July and August despite the ongoing contraction in residential investment. Hiring in nonbusiness services, which include the education and health industries, and in natural resources and mining increased in line with recent trends. The average workweek held steady and aggregate hours edged lower. The unemployment rate jumped 0.4 percentage point, to 6.1 percent, in August, while the labor force participation rate held steady.

Industrial production fell sharply in August after edging up in July. Motor vehicle assemblies dropped in August as automakers scaled back production following a sharp decline in vehicle sales in July. The output of high-tech equipment rose at a moderate rate in the first half of the year, but indicators of production gains in the high-tech sector pointed toward relatively subdued growth in the third quarter. The output of other manufacturing sectors declined for a third consecutive month in August, and indicators of near-term production suggested that the industrial sector was likely to remain soft over the next few months. For most major industry groups, factory utilization rates in August remained below their long-run averages.

Real personal consumption expenditures (PCE) turned down in June and declined more noticeably in July; over the two months, outlays for motor vehicles dropped markedly and spending on other goods weakened substantially. The recent weakness in consumer spending on goods excluding motor vehicles contrasted sharply with solid growth in the spring. Outlays for services were reported to have increased modestly in June and July. Total nominal retail sales decreased in August. Real disposable income was boosted significantly by the tax rebates in the second quarter; excluding the temporary rebates, real disposable income fell in that quarter and continued to move lower in July. Early September readings on consumer sentiment rose from the low levels recorded over the past several months.

Residential construction activity continued to decline steeply through midyear. In July, both single-family housing starts and permit issuance fell further. In the multifamily sector, starts dropped back in July to a rate more in line with its historical range. June's spike in multifamily starts was related to more-stringent building codes that took effect in New York City on July 1, which apparently led developers to pull forward the start date of some planned apartment projects. Recent cutbacks in new residential construction reduced the level of new home inventories, and the relative stability in sales of new homes allowed those inventory reductions to begin to bring down the months' supply of new homes for sale. Even so, the months' supply of new homes for sale remained extremely elevated relative to the level that prevailed before the downturn in the housing market. Sales of existing single-family homes were relatively flat since the end of last year. Tight conditions in mortgage markets over the summer continued to restrain housing demand, especially for borrowers seeking nonconforming mortgages. Several indexes indicated that house prices had declined substantially over the past 12 months, and these prices appeared to remain on a downward trajectory.

In the business sector, investment in equipment and software fell in the second quarter, largely reflecting a sharp drop in spending on motor vehicles. In contrast, growth of real outlays for nontransportation equipment posted a moderate gain. The data on nominal orders and shipments of nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft rose substantially in July, although some of the gain in nominal shipments may have reflected unusually large price increases. Moreover, as in previous months, orders and shipments were likely supported in July by increased foreign demand. Real nonresidential investment increased at a robust rate in the second quarter; however, nominal expenditures declined in July, and forward-looking indicators remained downbeat. Vacancy rates for commercial properties moved higher in the first half of the year and the architectural billings index continued to register weak readings.

Real nonfarm inventories excluding motor vehicles fell in the second quarter. The book value of manufacturing and trade inventories (excluding motor vehicles) stepped up modestly in July from the second-quarter level, but the ratio of these inventories to sales held steady.

The U.S. international trade deficit widened in July, as a surge in the value of imports of goods and services more than offset strong growth in exports. Imports in July were led by a rapid increase in imports of oil, reflecting both higher volumes and higher prices, and were supported by a rise in imports of industrial supplies, capital goods, and services. The strength in exports was broadly based but benefited in particular from robust exports of automotive products.

Economic indicators pointed to a marked deceleration of economic activity in the advanced foreign economies. In the second quarter, gross domestic product (GDP) was flat in Canada and the United Kingdom and fell in both Japan and the euro area. In July, employment continued to weaken in Japan, and retail sales fell in the euro area. Headline inflation in the major advanced foreign economies stayed elevated. Data received over the intermeeting period showed a further slowing of growth in emerging market economies. For Mexico, anemic growth in the second quarter followed a slight contraction in the first. In Asia, output decelerated significantly in the second quarter, as growth moderated in China and weakened more sharply in several other economies. Headline inflation rose in some developing countries but fell in others.

Headline consumer prices in the United States declined slightly in August after having risen rapidly during the preceding three months. Energy prices dropped steeply, and the rate of increase in food prices moderated somewhat. Core consumer prices rose a bit more slowly in August than they had in June and July. Excluding food and energy, producer prices rose modestly in August, although prices for capital goods other than motor vehicles and high-tech equipment posted a large increase. During recent months, some cost pressures eased as the prices of crude oil and other commodities declined and non-oil import prices decelerated. Some measures of inflation expectations were down notably over the intermeeting period. Measures of hourly labor compensation continued to increase moderately with no sign of acceleration.

At its August meeting, the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) kept the target federal funds rate unchanged at 2 percent. The Committee's statement noted that economic activity expanded in the second quarter, partly reflecting growth in consumer spending and exports. However, labor markets had softened further and financial markets remained under considerable stress. Tight credit conditions, the ongoing housing contraction, and elevated energy prices were likely to weigh on economic growth over the next few quarters. The Committee stated that, over time, the substantial easing of monetary policy, combined with ongoing measures to foster market liquidity, should help to promote moderate economic growth. Inflation had been high, spurred by the earlier increases in the prices of energy and some other commodities, and some indicators of inflation expectations had been elevated. The Committee expected inflation to moderate later this year and next year, but the inflation outlook remained highly uncertain. Although downside risks to growth remained, the upside risks to inflation were also of significant concern to the Committee. The Committee indicated that it would continue to monitor economic and financial developments and would act as needed to promote sustainable economic growth and price stability.