Over the intermeeting period, investors marked down considerably their expectations for the path of monetary policy. Policy expectations were largely unaffected by the outcome of the August FOMC meeting, as the Committee's decision to leave the target federal funds rate unchanged was broadly anticipated and the accompanying statement was reportedly in line with investor expectations. Subsequently, the expected future path of monetary policy dropped amid increasing concerns about the health of financial institutions. The market's expectation for the onset of policy tightening was also pushed back as labor market conditions weakened and oil prices declined further, developments that were seen as tempering inflation pressures. Yields on nominal Treasury coupon securities declined over the intermeeting period while yields on inflation-indexed Treasury securities were roughly unchanged, which left inflation compensation noticeably lower. The decrease in inflation compensation was most pronounced at shorter horizons, likely reflecting the drop in oil prices.

Conditions in short-term funding markets remained strained for most of the intermeeting period and deteriorated considerably just before the FOMC meeting. The spreads of London interbank offered rates, or Libor, over comparable-maturity overnight index swap rates, especially those beyond the one-month horizon, moved up from already-high levels. In the commercial paper market, spreads on lower-rated nonfinancial and asset-backed commercial paper fluctuated in an elevated range, as did spreads on financial paper. Depository institutions continued to bid aggressively for 28-day funds at the Term Auction Facility (TAF) during the intermeeting period, and demand for funds was strong at both of the 84-day TAF auctions. The amount of overnight primary credit outstanding was about unchanged at a high level, while term primary credit continued to rise. No credit was extended through the Primary Dealer Credit Facility until the final week of the intermeeting period. Conditions in markets for repurchase agreements, or repos, against some types of collateral deteriorated over the intermeeting period, and liquidity in non-Treasury, non-agency term repo markets remained poor.

In longer-term credit markets, yields on investment-grade corporate bonds were not much changed, but yields on speculative-grade bonds rose somewhat. Risk spreads on corporate bonds jumped, as comparable-maturity Treasury yields dropped; most of the increase in risk spreads occurred late in the intermeeting period. Corporate bond issuance moderated a bit further in August, while growth of bank lending to businesses was tepid. Broad equity indexes declined over the intermeeting period. Financial sector equity indexes were volatile and ended the period down sharply.

Liquidity conditions in the money markets of major foreign economies deteriorated over the intermeeting period. Sovereign bond yields moved down, mainly reflecting declines in inflation compensation. On a trade-weighted basis, the dollar rose against the currencies of our major trading partners.

M2 contracted slightly in August following a generally weak performance over the previous few months. The August data showed a considerable reallocation among the components of M2. Liquid deposits and retail money funds fell while small time deposits surged as some banks and thrifts bid aggressively for these deposits.

On September 7, the Treasury Department and the Federal Housing Finance Agency announced that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac had been placed into conservatorship and that Treasury would establish a backstop lending facility for the government-sponsored enterprises (GSEs), purchase preferred stock in the GSEs as necessary to ensure that they maintain a positive net worth, and initiate a program to purchase mortgage-backed securities (MBS). Following the announcement, spreads on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac debt and on agency MBS narrowed, while share prices for their common and preferred stock fell. Auctions of GSE debt following the conservatorship announcement reportedly attracted heavy demand, but market participants indicated that liquidity in the secondary market for GSE debt remained somewhat lower than normal. Before the conservatorship announcement, interest rates on 30-year fixed-rate mortgages had declined less than those on comparable-maturity Treasury securities, leaving mortgage spreads at the top of their range of the past two decades. Following the Treasury announcement, rates and spreads on new conforming fixed-rate mortgages dropped sharply.

In the days immediately before the FOMC meeting, Lehman Brothers Holdings filed for bankruptcy, Bank of America announced that it would acquire Merrill Lynch, and market concerns about the health of other financial institutions increased. To address potential liquidity pressures in financial markets associated with these developments, the Federal Reserve announced several additional initiatives, including an expansion of collateral eligible for the Primary Dealer Credit Facility and the Term Securities Lending Facility (TSLF), increases in the size and frequency of TSLF auctions, and a temporary relaxation of the limitations on broker-dealers' access to funding from affiliated depository institutions. In addition, a consortium of 10 major banks announced the creation of a liquidity pool from which participants could draw collateralized loans. Despite these enhanced liquidity measures, short-term funding markets remained severely strained, reflecting investors' heightened concerns about the financial condition of other large financial firms, including American International Group, a prominent insurance and financial services company. To further support market liquidity and to help keep the federal funds rate near its target, the Federal Reserve conducted very large reserve-adding open market operations the day before and the morning of the FOMC meeting. Market expectations for the path of monetary policy moved down sharply. Yields on nominal Treasury securities dropped steeply, and credit spreads on corporate bonds widened significantly. Equity markets were volatile and equity prices dropped considerably.