In their discussion of the economic situation and outlook, FOMC participants noted that financial market strains had intensified in the days before the meeting and that these strains could potentially weigh further on economic activity. Participants agreed that economic growth was likely to be sluggish in the second half of 2008. Several participants had marked down their near-term outlook for economic activity and some judged that downside risks had increased, but most continued to expect a gradual recovery in 2009. Despite concern that recent high inflation readings suggested that price pressures could persist, participants generally thought that the outlook for inflation had improved, mainly reflecting the recent declines in the prices of oil and other commodities, the stronger foreign exchange value of the dollar, and the weakening of the labor market.

Participants noted that stresses on financial markets and institutions had increased. The announcement of government support for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac appeared to have had a positive impact on financial markets, most importantly on the primary and secondary markets for residential mortgages. However, the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers and market concerns about other financial institutions were causing a wide variety of financial firms to experience increasing difficulty in obtaining funding and raising capital, a development that was likely to lead to a further tightening of credit availability to households and firms. Meeting participants were highly uncertain about future financial developments and their implications for the broader economy. There was agreement that the liquidity facilities established by the Federal Reserve over the past year had been helpful in ameliorating strains in financial markets, but it was also noted that the capital of banks and other financial institutions would need to be bolstered in order to strengthen the functioning of the financial system and ease constraints on credit.

Strains on the financial system, and their interactions with housing developments and the real economy more broadly, continued to restrain aggregate demand and pose substantial downside risks to the expected path for economic activity. The fall in employment in August highlighted concerns that an adverse dynamic was taking hold, in which economic weakness increased financial firms' losses, leading to tighter credit conditions and thus causing a further softening in economic activity. However, some participants cited indications that the pace of decline in house prices might begin to slow in coming months, which would serve to limit the strains on lenders. Mortgage rates had fallen after action on the GSEs, inventories of houses for sale had fallen, and reports from contacts in some parts of the nation suggested a possible bottoming of the housing sector might not be far off, although the differences in the prospects for housing across states and regions seemed to be large. All in all, the contraction in the housing sector and the adverse implications for the performance of mortgage-related financial assets continued to represent a drag on economic performance.

Recent readings on consumer spending had been weak despite the tax rebates, which were mostly paid out by mid-July; these indicators suggested that consumption may remain soft as the effects of the stimulus fade over the near term. Falling real estate prices were likely to continue to reduce household wealth, and the eroding quality of consumer loans had the potential to lead to a further tightening of credit conditions. Many participants worried that the deterioration in labor market conditions over the summer would damp the growth of income and depress consumer confidence, further holding back consumption.

Business spending had held up well over the summer, and inventories appeared to be well managed. However, reports from business contacts suggested that new commercial real estate projects were difficult to finance. With credit conditions generally tight and economic prospects relatively uncertain, investment spending was likely to be on the soft side going forward.

Foreign economic growth had slowed in recent months and the dollar had risen broadly; both of these developments suggested that the contributions to U.S. GDP growth from net exports would likely be less strong than it had been of late. Some participants noted that financial strains were increasing in many foreign countries. However, a beneficial side effect of the global slowdown was the falling prices of oil and other commodities, which would help to bolster real incomes of U.S. households.

Participants generally were somewhat more confident about the outlook for some moderation in inflation over the forecast horizon. Recent substantial declines in the prices of oil and other commodities should help to contain broader price pressures in coming quarters. In addition, the effects of the stronger dollar on import prices along with increased economic slack would tend to damp inflation. Various measures of inflation expectations had declined since the last meeting, and nominal wage increases had continued to be moderate. Indeed, with solid growth in productivity, unit labor costs had been well contained. Still, reports from business contacts suggested that firms were continuing to attempt to pass through to their customers previous increases in the costs of energy and other raw materials and would resist reversing previous price increases. Participants noted that recent readings on core and headline inflation had been elevated, and they expressed concern that high inflation might become embedded in expectations and retain considerable momentum.