At its meeting on August 10, 2004, the Federal Open Market Committee decided to increase the target federal funds rate by 25 basis points, to 1½ percent, and to retain its assessment of balanced risks with respect to sustainable economic growth and price stability. In its announcement, the Committee noted that output growth had moderated in recent months and that the pace of improvement in labor market conditions had slowed, but that the softness likely owed importantly to the substantial rise in energy prices. It also noted that while inflation was somewhat elevated this year, a portion of the pickup seemed to reflect transitory factors. The Committee went on to comment that the economy appeared poised to resume a stronger pace of expansion going forward, that it continued to believe that policy accommodation could be removed at a pace that was likely to be measured, and that it would respond to changes in economic prospects as needed to fulfill its obligation to maintain price stability.

Although the Committee's decision to raise the intended level of the federal funds rate by 25 basis points was widely anticipated in financial markets, the accompanying statement was read as setting a more optimistic tone about economic prospects than had been anticipated and prompted investors to mark up their expectations for the near-term path of policy. That sentiment was apparently reinforced over the remainder of the period by the comments of several Federal Reserve officials and the release of the August employment report, which seemed to convey the view that the economy was emerging from its "soft patch." As a result, policy rate expectations for the next two quarters ended the intermeeting period slightly firmer. Longer-term policy expectations, however, moved noticeably lower, reflecting the release of relatively benign readings on inflation and the Chairman's comments on the inflation outlook in testimony to the House Budget Committee. In line with these revised expectations for the path of policy, the term structure of interest rates flattened over the intermeeting period, as the two-year Treasury yield ended about unchanged and the ten-year Treasury yield dropped somewhat. While credit spreads on investment-grade corporate bonds narrowed a bit, spreads on speculative-grade issues fell significantly more, particularly in riskier segments of the market, probably reflecting greater confidence about prospects in the business sector. Further evidence of such confidence was visible in equity markets, where broad indexes advanced 5½ to 7½ percent. The exchange value of the dollar against other major currencies was about unchanged over the intermeeting period.

M2 balances were about flat on average over the previous two months: After contracting a bit in July, M2 expanded slightly in August. Money growth was damped by a rise in the opportunity cost of holding M2 assets (as typically occurs in periods of policy tightening). In addition, the lift to M2 from mortgage refinancings in evidence during the spring was likely still unwinding over the past couple of months, depressing the growth of liquid deposits. Business loans at banks expanded in August for the third consecutive month.