In the Committee's discussion of current and prospective developments, the members agreed that the economy had strengthened somewhat after going through a "soft patch" in late spring and early summer. Recent data and anecdotal information suggested solid growth ahead, but at a pace that could well be less brisk than previously anticipated. Consumer spending appeared to have rebounded in the third quarter. Business investment also was robust, but executives, especially those at larger firms, seemed more cautious about the outlook than they had been several months ago. Although higher energy prices had played an important role in damping growth, questions remained about the reasons for the shortfall from expectations held this spring, and several policymakers remarked that their uncertainty about the likely pace of the expansion going forward had risen. Members commented that the benign incoming data on prices tended to confirm their previous judgment that the increase in inflation earlier in the year had importantly reflected temporary factors and that core inflation would probably remain relatively low.

In their discussion of developments in key sectors of the economy, policymakers agreed that business investment would most likely continue to provide considerable impetus to the overall economic expansion going forward. The anticipated further expansion of aggregate demand should boost investment. Also, low real interest rates, strong business balance sheets, and high levels of profits and cash flow were expected to support capital spending. However, the extent to which the federal tax provision permitting partial expensing of most investment expenditures had been boosting capital expenditures was difficult to discern, and it was possible that the expiration of that provision at year-end could result in a fairly sharp slowing in investment, at least for a time. In addition, recent discussions with business contacts, as well as a range of statistical information, suggested a persisting tendency for corporate executives to limit capital spending commitments. The reasons for this tendency were unclear, but a continuing focus on corporate governance issues might still be playing a role, and business concerns about terrorism and other geopolitical risks might have risen this year. Some members also noted that the pace of technological advance could be slowing a bit, trimming the rate of decline in the cost of capital for high-tech equipment and software. High vacancy rates for office buildings and industrial structures would likely continue to weigh on nonresidential investment, although activity in that sector was showing some signs of revival.

Committee members interpreted recent data and anecdotal information as indicating that growth in consumer spending was rebounding fr om its relatively slow rate of late spring. They saw household spending as most likely continuing to expand at a solid pace going forward. Gains in nominal income, partly resulting from gradual increases in employment, were expected to continue to support consumer spending and low interest rates to buoy residential investment. However, members perceived several possible sources of downside risk to household spending. In particular, households might hold back on spending in an attempt to increase their saving, which had fallen to a very low level relative to income. The ebbing of stimulus from last year's tax cuts also could tend to slow growth in consumer spending. And a failure of employment to accelerate as expected could undermine consumer confidence as well as hold down the growth in personal income.

With regard to the external sector, foreign economies were seen as generally expanding steadily, with the high level of crude oil prices apparently having restrained growth abroad somewhat less than in the United States. Still, expectations for foreign economic growth had been marked down somewhat, with adverse implications for U.S. exports and for overall U.S. growth. Indeed, some policymakers noted that domestic demand in several major U.S. trading partners was relatively weak and that aggregate demand in those economies was being sustained importantly by exports to the United States. That pattern was contributing to a worrisome further widening of the U.S. trade and current account balances, and the Committee discussed the significance of wide external deficits and various adjustments that might occur in the process of their return to more sustainable levels.

Committee members generally viewed labor market conditions as having improved modestly of late. Although payroll growth had been weak in June and July, it registered a somewhat better performance in August, and initial claims for unemployment insurance continued to hover around relatively low levels. Some members noted a mismatch between demand and supply for certain types of labor. In particular, unskilled workers were said to be having considerable difficulty finding jobs, while firms were facing challenges in hiring workers with some specific skills, including truck drivers and heavy-equipment operators. Partly as a result, businesses in a few sectors, such as transportation and construction, reportedly were experiencing constraints on their output. Overall, however, some slack appeared to remain in labor markets. Looking forward, policymakers expected gradual improvement in labor market conditions as the economy expanded. However, anecdotal information suggested that many firms remained quite cautious about expanding payrolls, citing, among other factors, continued uncertainty about economic prospects and the high cost of providing health care benefits.

Partly reflecting the likely persistence of some economic slack, members expected inflation to stay low. Although non-energy commodity prices remained relatively high, energy prices had declined noticeably from record levels in recent weeks, and the effects of the energy price shock on inflation were expected to wane. In this regard, a number of policymakers commented that data on consumer and producer inflation had generally come in at or below expectations over the intermeeting period, tending to confirm the Committee's judgment that the upturn in inflation earlier in the year had owed importantly to temporary factors. Moreover, inflation expectations appeared to be well-contained, although those expectations probably were conditioned in part on investors' anticipation that the stance of monetary policy would likely be tightened over time.

In the Committee's discussion of policy for the intermeeting period, all of the members favored raising the target for the federal funds rate by 25 basis points to 1¾ percent at this meeting. The expansion evidently was resilient and self-sustaining and appeared no longer to require the unusual degree of monetary stimulus that had previously been necessary. A gradual increase in interest rates seemed likely to be consistent with continued solid economic growth that would be sufficient to erode remaining margins of slack in resource utilization over time. In view of these considerations, the Committee believed that another modest reduction in the degree of monetary policy accommodation at today's meeting was warranted. With today's action, the real federal funds rate--measured as the difference between the nominal funds rate and a moving average of core PCE inflation--would move slightly into positive territory.

With regard to the Committee's announcement to be released after the meeting, the members agreed that the statement should indicate that, after moderating earlier in the year, partly in response to the substantial rise in energy prices, output growth appeared to have regained some traction and that labor market conditions had improved modestly. In addition, policymakers concurred that the statement should indicate that inflation and inflation expectations had eased in recent months. They also agreed again to characterize the risks to sustainable growth and price stability as balanced. Members commented that recent evidence had boosted their confidence that moderate economic growth would continue and that inflation would be contained. With aggregate demand probably expanding at least as rapidly as the economy's potential to produce over the next several quarters, policymakers continued to see economic conditions as likely to warrant a further reduction in policy accommodation in coming quarters. However, in the view of many members, policy actions would need to be increasingly keyed to incoming data. Indeed, it was noted that market participants now appeared to anticipate some slowing in the pace of policy firming before long and did not interpret the removal of policy accommodation at a measured rate as necessarily involving the same policy action at each meeting.