The information reviewed at this meeting suggested that economic growth regained some vigor in recent months after having slowed in late spring. The August labor market report showed a moderate gain in payrolls. After contracting in June, industrial production strengthened modestly on average in July and August, and the increases were widespread across sectors. Consumer spending rose sharply in July, housing activity increased further in August, and business outlays picked up last month. Core consumer price inflation moderated in June and July, and a decline in energy prices further damped overall inflation in July.

The labor market improved in August, and the unemployment rate edged down to 5.4 percent. Private nonfarm payrolls grew moderately, with gains registered in the manufacturing, construction, financial activities, and nonbusiness services categories. In addition, the figures for June and July were revised upward and suggested that the deceleration in hiring over that period was not as abrupt as had been previously thought. The average workweek was unchanged in August from the upward-revised July level and was a bit higher than its second-quarter average. The labor force participation rate edged down in August.

Total industrial production advanced modestly on average in July and August, down slightly from its second-quarter pace. The increases in manufacturing production since the end of the second quarter were widespread. Output of motor vehicles and parts jumped in August. Excluding motor vehicles and parts, the expansion in manufacturing output was brisk in July but more subdued in August. In the high-tech sector, computer production continued to rise in August, and the output of communications equipment posted its fourth consecutive monthly increase. In contrast, output at utilities declined further in July and August, while mining-related production was about flat on average over those same months. The rate of capacity utilization ticked up in July from its average over the first half of the year and remained steady in August.

Real consumer spending grew sharply in July after having slowed in the second quarter, and the available indicators suggest that spending held fairly steady in August. Expenditures on goods jumped in July and moderated in August, while spending on services moved up somewhat in July. Purchases of motor vehicles surged in July and fell back in August. For the two months together, the average pace of these outlays exceeded that seen in the first half of the year, reflecting in part a further sweetening of incentives. Real disposable income was up slightly in July, as increases in compensation were largely offset by declines in other income categories. The latest readings on consumer confidence showed a drop in August amid labor market slack and near-record gasoline prices, and a further slight decline in September, but the readings for the third quarter averaged above those for the second quarter.

Housing activity increased further in August. Housing starts for new single-family homes bounced up in July and remained about unchanged in August, and starts of multi-family homes rose somewhat each month. Taken together, total housing starts in August reached the highest level in five months. Home sales remained robust in July for both existing and new homes, although sales were below the monthly peaks recorded earlier in the year. Interest rates on thirty-year conventional mortgages receded over the past couple of months, retracing much of the runup in rates that occurred earlier in the year. Weekly data on mortgage applications to purchase homes continued to move up, on average, through mid-September.

Business outlays for equipment and software increased at a significant pace in the second quarter, and the available data pointed to a similar advance more recently. Spending was being supported by the continued gains in business output, low financing costs, ongoing price declines for high-tech capital, and the corporate sector's large cushion of liquid assets. Spending on transportation equipment and other capital goods was brisk in the second quarter, although expenditures in the high-tech sector decelerated. In July, shipments of capital goods excluding aircraft fell substantially from the rate seen in the first half of the year, but orders were relatively strong. Real business investment in nonresidential structures remained depressed, but the most recent data provided a sign of some improvement. In the office sector, the vacancy rate came in only a little below its recent peak, although property values had inched up, and the vacancy rate for industrial space also remained near its high. The retail sector, in contrast, continued to fare better.

Excluding motor vehicles, the pace of inventory accumulation in July continued at its second-quarter rate. A decline in stocks in the retail trade segment was more than offset by stockbuilding in the manufacturing and wholesale trade segments. Although the book value of manufacturing and trade inventories rose appreciably in July, these gains were again inflated by price increases in the petroleum sector. Inventory-sales ratios in the manufacturing sector, as in the retail and wholesale trade sectors (excluding motor vehicles and parts), remained about flat in July.

The U.S. international trade deficit reached a record high in June, bringing it to a new high in the second quarter as a percentage of nominal GDP. While the deficit fell back in July, it remained much above May's reading. In June, exports fell sharply, with declines widespread, while imports rose, owing in part to a surge in petroleum imports. In July, exports registered a modest recovery, driven by capital goods, industrial supplies, and automotive products, while the value of imports fell with the sharp decline in oil imports. Economic activity in the major foreign industrial countries continued to expand in the second quarter, although growth slowed in Japan and in the euro area. Indicators to date for the third quarter were mixed.

Core consumer prices edged up slightly over the months of June and July, as inflation in both goods and services moderated. The core PCE price index was flat in July but, like the core CPI, was up a bit on balance over June and July. The twelve-month change in core consumer prices based on either measure was somewhat higher this July than for the same period last year. Retail energy prices fell in July, led by a drop in gasoline prices after large gains in a number of earlier months. During the summer, gasoline inventories climbed above seasonal norms because of lower demand and increased imports, and the resulting downward pressure on margins led gasoline prices to fall even as crude oil prices moved higher. Owing to the decline in energy prices in July, inflation in overall consumer prices slowed that month. In August, households' expectations for consumer inflation in the year ahead edged lower for the second consecutive month. Meanwhile, after a small rise in July, the prices of finished goods faced by producers moved down a bit in August. Turning to labor costs, hourly compensation in the nonfarm business sector rose at a faster pace in the second quarter than it did in the first, but the advance was in line with the average rate of increase over the preceding four quarters. Unit labor costs measured at nonfinancial corporations also registered an increase in the second quarter.