The projection for U.S. economic activity prepared by the staff for the June FOMC meeting was revised down somewhat on balance. Real GDP growth was forecast to slow to a moderate rate in the second quarter and move down to a more modest pace in the second half of the year, primarily reflecting a more downbeat near-term outlook for business fixed investment. The projection for real GDP growth over the medium term was little changed, as the effects of a higher projected path for the broad real dollar and lower trajectory for foreign economic growth were largely counterbalanced by a lower projected path for interest rates. Real GDP was forecast to expand at a rate a little above the staff's estimate of potential output growth in 2019 and 2020 and then slow to a pace slightly below potential output growth in 2021. The unemployment rate was projected to be roughly flat through 2021 and remain below the staff's estimate of its longer-run natural rate. With labor market conditions judged to be tight, the staff continued to assume that projected employment gains would manifest in smaller-than-usual downward pressure on the unemployment rate and in larger-than-usual upward pressure on the labor force participation rate.

The staff's forecast for inflation was little changed on balance. The forecast for total PCE price inflation this year was revised down somewhat, reflecting a lower near-term projection for energy prices. The core inflation forecast for this year was unchanged at a level below 2 percent. Both total and core inflation were projected to move up slightly next year, as the low readings early this year were expected to be transitory, but nevertheless to continue to run below 2 percent.

The staff viewed the uncertainty around its projections for real GDP growth, the unemployment rate, and inflation as generally similar to the average of the past 20 years, although uncertainty was seen to have increased since the previous forecast. Moreover, the staff also judged that the risks to the forecast for real GDP growth had tilted to the downside, with a skew to the upside for the unemployment rate. The increased uncertainty and shift to downside risks around the projection reflected the staff's assessment that international trade tensions and foreign economic developments seemed more likely to move in directions that could have significant negative effects on the U.S. economy than to resolve more favorably than assumed. With the risks to the forecast for economic activity tilted to the downside, the risks to the inflation projection were also viewed as having a downward skew.