Investors' concerns about downside risks to the economic outlook weighed on financial markets over the intermeeting period. Market participants cited negative news about international trade tensions and, to a lesser extent, soft U.S. and foreign economic data as factors that contributed to these developments. Nominal Treasury yields posted notable declines and the expected path of policy shifted down considerably over the period. Equity prices declined, on net, and corporate bond spreads widened. However, financing conditions for businesses and households generally remained supportive of economic growth.

FOMC communications following the May meeting had little net effect on yields, though they rose modestly following the Chair's press conference. Later in the period, the expected path of policy moved down, partly in response to incoming information pointing to a weaker economic outlook. The market-implied probability for a 25 basis point cut in the target range for the federal funds rate by the July FOMC meeting rose to about 85 percent. The market-implied path for the federal funds rate for 2019 and 2020 shifted down markedly. Based on overnight index swap rates, investors expected the federal funds rate to decline about 60 basis points by the end of this year—a downward revision of 40 basis points over the intermeeting period.

Longer-term Treasury yields fell considerably over the period, with the declines driven primarily by negative headlines about trade tensions between the United States and two major trading partners, China and Mexico. Softer-than-expected domestic economic news, such as the weaker-than-expected employment data, also contributed to the declines. The spread between 10-year and 3-month Treasury yields fell to the bottom decile of its distribution since 1971. Measures of inflation compensation derived from Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities also decreased notably over the period along with declines in oil prices.

Major U.S. equity price indexes declined, on net, over the intermeeting period. Equity prices fell notably over the first few weeks of the period, primarily in response to the escalation of trade tensions with China and Mexico. Firms with high China exposure and those in cyclical sectors—such as energy, information technology, industrials, communication services, and banks—posted particularly large losses. However, later in the period, stock prices regained a significant portion of their losses amid an easing of trade tensions with Mexico and expectations of a more accommodative stance of policy. One-month option-implied volatility on the S&P 500 index—the VIX—increased over the period, and corporate credit spreads widened.

Conditions in short-term funding markets remained stable over the intermeeting period. Overnight interest rates in short-term funding markets declined in response to the technical adjustment that reduced the IOER rate 5 basis points to 2.35 percent after the May FOMC meeting. The average of the effective federal funds rate over the period was about 6 basis points below the level just before the May FOMC meeting, well within the FOMC's target range. Rates on commercial paper and negotiable certificates of deposit also declined somewhat.

Escalation of trade tensions and soft economic data also weighed on foreign financial markets. Most major global equity price indexes declined, on net, and EME sovereign spreads widened modestly. In the AFEs, policy expectations and sovereign yields declined notably, in part reflecting more-accommodative monetary policy communications by major central banks.

The broad dollar index rose a bit over the intermeeting period. The Japanese yen and Swiss franc, which are viewed as safe-haven currencies, appreciated against the dollar. The British pound depreciated amid increased uncertainty around Brexit. Increased trade tensions contributed to some depreciation of the Chinese renminbi. The value of the Mexican peso against the dollar fluctuated in response to announcements related to potential tariffs on imports from Mexico but ended the period only slightly lower.

Financing conditions for nonfinancial businesses continued to be accommodative overall. Gross issuance of corporate bonds was strong in May following a spell of seasonal weakness in April. The credit quality of nonfinancial corporations remained solid, as the volume of nonfinancial corporate bond upgrades outpaced that of downgrades in May. Issuance in the institutional syndicated leveraged loan market was subdued in April but rebounded in May, reflecting strong issuance beyond that associated with refinancing of maturing leveraged loans. Meanwhile, commercial and industrial lending slowed somewhat in April and May after a period of stronger growth in the first quarter. Small business credit market conditions were little changed, and credit conditions in municipal bond markets stayed accommodative on net.

In the commercial real estate (CRE) sector, financing conditions continued to be generally accommodative. Commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS) spreads widened slightly over the intermeeting period but remained near the low end of their post-crisis range. Issuance of agency and non-agency CMBS was solid in May, and CRE lending by banks expanded in April and May at a slower rate than in the first quarter.

Financing conditions in the residential mortgage market also remained supportive over the intermeeting period. Home mortgage rates decreased about 40 basis points. Since last November, mortgage rates had declined more than 1 percentage point, contributing to an increase in home-purchase mortgage originations to the solid levels seen in 2017.

Financing conditions in consumer credit markets were little changed in recent months and remained generally supportive of household spending, although the supply of credit to consumers with subprime credit scores continued to be tight. Consumer credit expanded at a moderate pace in the first quarter, with bank credit data pointing to a pickup in April and May. Conditions in the consumer asset-backed securities market remained stable over the intermeeting period, with robust issuance and spreads that were little changed at low levels.