The information available for the June 18–19 meeting indicated that labor market conditions remained strong. Real gross domestic product (GDP) appeared to be rising at a moderate rate in the second quarter, as household spending growth picked up from the weak first quarter while business fixed investment was soft. Consumer price inflation, as measured by the 12-month percentage change in the price index for personal consumption expenditures (PCE), was below 2 percent in April. Survey-based measures of longer-run inflation expectations were little changed.

Total nonfarm payroll employment expanded solidly, on average, in April and May; however, job gains slowed sharply in May after a strong increase in April. The unemployment rate declined to 3.6 percent in April and remained there in May, its lowest level in 50 years. The labor force participation rate moved down somewhat in April and held steady in May, remaining close to its average over the previous few years; the employment-to-population ratio stayed flat in April and May. The unemployment rates for African Americans, Asians, and Hispanics decreased, on net, over April and May and were below their levels at the end of the previous economic expansion, though persistent differentials in unemployment rates across groups remained. The average share of workers employed part time for economic reasons over April and May continued to be below the lows reached in late 2007. The rate of private-sector job openings moved up in March and held steady in April, while the rate of quits was unchanged at a high level; the four-week moving average of initial claims for unemployment insurance benefits through early June was near historically low levels. Average hourly earnings for all employees rose 3.1 percent over the 12 months ending in May, slightly lower than in April but somewhat faster than a year earlier. Total labor compensation per hour in the business sector increased 1.6 percent over the four quarters ending in the first quarter, slower than a year earlier.

Total consumer prices, as measured by the PCE price index, increased 1.5 percent over the 12 months ending in April. This increase was slower than a year earlier, as core PCE price inflation (which excludes changes in consumer food and energy prices) moved down to 1.6 percent, consumer food price inflation remained well below core inflation, and consumer energy price inflation slowed considerably to about the same rate as core inflation. The trimmed mean measure of PCE price inflation constructed by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas was 2.0 percent over that 12‑month period. The consumer price index (CPI) rose 1.8 percent over the 12 months ending in May, while core CPI inflation was 2.0 percent. The monthly change in core PCE prices in April and the staff's estimate of the change in May—based on the CPI data and the relevant prices from the producer price index—were higher in both of these months than the very low readings seen in January through March. Recent survey-based measures of longer-run inflation expectations were little changed on balance. While measures from the Desk's Survey of Primary Dealers and Survey of Market Participants were little changed, the preliminary June reading from the University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers dropped significantly to below its range in recent years.

Growth in real consumer expenditures appeared to pick up to a solid rate in the second quarter from its weak first-quarter pace. The components of the nominal retail sales data used by the Bureau of Economic Analysis to estimate PCE increased in May, and the retail sales data for the previous two months were revised up notably. Sales of light motor vehicles rose sharply in May after stepping down in April. Key factors that influence consumer spending—including a low unemployment rate, further gains in real disposable income, and still elevated measures of households' net worth—were supportive of solid real PCE growth in the near term. In addition, the Michigan survey measure of consumer sentiment edged down in the preliminary June reading but was still at an upbeat level.

Real residential investment in the second quarter looked to be continuing the decline seen earlier in the year, albeit at a slower rate. Starts of new single-family homes rose in April but fell back in May, while starts of multifamily units increased over both months. Building permit issuance for new single-family homes—which tends to be a good indicator of the underlying trend in construction of such homes—was at roughly the same level in May as its first-quarter average. Sales of new homes fell notably in April after a marked gain in March, and existing home sales edged down in April.

Real nonresidential private fixed investment appeared soft in the second quarter. Real private expenditures for business equipment and intellectual property looked to be roughly flat, as nominal shipments of nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft moved sideways in April. Forward-looking indicators of business equipment spending pointed to possible decreases in the near term. Orders for nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft declined notably in April and continued to be below the level of shipments, readings on business sentiment deteriorated further, and analysts' expectations of firms' longer-term profit growth moved down sharply. Nominal business expenditures for nonresidential structures outside of the drilling and mining sector decreased in April, and the number of crude oil and natural gas rigs in operation—an indicator of business spending for structures in the drilling and mining sector—continued to decline through mid‑June.

Industrial production moved down in April and picked up in May, leaving output about flat over those two months, but production was lower than at the beginning of the year. Manufacturing output declined, on net, over April and May, although mining output expanded. Automakers' assembly schedules suggested that the production of light motor vehicles would move up in the near term, but new orders indexes from national and regional manufacturing surveys pointed to continued soft total factory output in the coming months. Moreover, industry news indicated that aircraft production would continue to be slow in the near term.

Total real government purchases appeared to be rising solidly in the second quarter. Federal government purchases were being boosted by strong increases in defense spending through May and the return of nondefense purchases to more typical levels after the partial federal government shutdown in the first quarter. Real purchases by state and local governments seemed to be rising modestly; total payrolls of these governments edged down over April and May, but nominal state and local construction spending expanded notably in April.

Net exports added substantially to real GDP growth in the first quarter, as exports increased robustly and imports fell. After widening in March, the nominal trade deficit narrowed in April; even though exports declined, imports declined by more. The available data suggested that net exports would be a small drag on real GDP growth in the second quarter.

Growth in the foreign economies remained subdued in the first quarter, as soft growth in the Canadian economy and weakness in several emerging market economies (EMEs) offset somewhat stronger growth in other advanced foreign economies (AFEs) and in China's economy. Recent indicators suggested that the pace of economic activity picked up in Canada in the second quarter but slowed in some other AFEs. Economic growth also appeared to have slowed in China. Foreign inflation remained subdued but rose a bit from lows earlier in the year, in part reflecting higher retail energy prices in many economies.