The staff briefed the Committee on the possible role of a standing fixed-rate repurchase agreement (repo) facility as part of the monetary policy implementation framework; a facility of this type would allow counterparties to obtain temporary liquidity at a fixed rate of interest through repurchase transactions with the Federal Reserve involving their holdings of select securities eligible for open market operations. The staff presentation noted how such a facility could provide a backstop against unusual spikes in the federal funds rate and other money market rates and might also provide incentives for banks to shift the composition of their portfolios of liquid assets away from reserves and toward high-quality securities. Key design features for such a facility, including the fixed rate offered to counterparties, the set of eligible counterparties, and the range of securities eligible to be placed at the facility, would influence the effectiveness of a facility in achieving either of these objectives. The staff noted a number of considerations that could arise in setting these design parameters, including potential repercussions in unsecured and secured funding markets, the eligibility of counterparties in weak financial condition, the potential that turning to such a facility could become stigmatized, and issues of a level playing field across different classes of counterparties.

Participants commented on a number of issues in connection with key design parameters for a repo facility. In terms of the setting of the facility's fixed rate, many participants acknowledged a tradeoff in determining the level of the rate relative to other money market rates. On the one hand, establishing the rate at a narrow spread above money market rates would likely provide better interest rate control and could also be helpful in avoiding stigma that can be associated with the use of standing lending facilities with fixed rates set well above the level of money market rates. On the other hand, setting the rate close to the level of money market rates could result in very sizable Federal Reserve operations on a daily basis that could be viewed as disintermediating the activity of private entities in money markets.

In considering the eligible set of counterparties for a repo facility, a number of participants noted that making the facility available only to primary dealers would likely imply that the effects of the facility would be most direct on repo markets, while the influence on the federal funds market would be only indirect. A couple of participants noted that, particularly if banks were eligible counterparties, it would be important for counterparties of all sizes to have access to funding through the facility on the same terms. A few participants noted that a facility could enhance financial stability by providing a means by which nonbank counterparties can readily obtain liquidity against their high-quality assets. A couple of other participants noted ways that a repo facility could have unintended effects on financial stability; for example, if reserves help support overall financial stability, a facility that significantly reduced the demand for reserves might not be beneficial.

Many participants commented on issues associated with the availability of such a facility to firms in different states of financial condition. Several thought there should not be a guarantee of access to such a facility regardless of a firm's financial condition, while a number of others were willing to consider how such a facility could be structured to work effectively in a stressed environment where high-quality liquid assets were used as collateral. A few participants noted that the availability of the facility to banks during periods of stress, particularly when they might be in weak financial condition, could be an important factor determining whether a facility would significantly reduce banks' demand for reserves in normal times.

In their discussion of key objectives for establishing a repo facility, some participants raised questions about whether such a facility is needed in an ample-reserves framework, noting that the current ample-reserves regime has provided good interest rate control. Other participants commented on the potential benefits of such a facility as a way to enhance interest rate control in the current implementation regime or as a means to operate in the current implementation framework but with a significantly smaller quantity of reserves than at present. A couple of participants noted that a facility could damp volatility in repo rates. Several participants noted that a facility could possibly aid with multiple policy objectives.

A number of participants noted that the policy objectives for a fixed-rate standing repo facility would have implications for the appropriate design for the facility. Several participants recognized the need to carefully evaluate possible parameter settings to guard against unintended consequences, including the potential for moral hazard or a more volatile Federal Reserve balance sheet. In addition, several participants highlighted the importance of evaluating whether other tools or initiatives could better achieve the desired goals. Overall, no decisions were reached at this meeting; participants stated that additional work would be necessary to clearly define the objectives of such a facility and to evaluate its potential net benefits.