The manager pro tem discussed developments in global financial markets over the intermeeting period. Trade-related developments reportedly led many market participants to take a more pessimistic view of the U.S. economic outlook. Equity prices and interest rates fell noticeably after the announcement of higher tariffs on Chinese imports in early May and then again after news that tariffs might be imposed on Mexican imports. In response to these developments, markets appeared to become more sensitive to incoming news about the outlook for global growth and inflation, including data that pointed to a continued subdued inflation environment and to slower economic growth in the United States and abroad.

Treasury yields fell sharply and far-forward measures of inflation compensation dropped significantly in the United States and abroad. Against this backdrop, market participants reportedly viewed communications by Federal Reserve officials as signaling a greater likelihood of a cut in the target range for the federal funds rate later in the year. The expected path of the federal funds rate embedded in futures prices shifted down significantly over the period.

In the euro area, far-forward measures of inflation compensation fell noticeably, and market participants reportedly increasingly came to believe that further monetary policy accommodation would be needed. Late in the intermeeting period, remarks by European Central Bank (ECB) President Draghi were interpreted as suggesting increased odds of further asset purchases by the ECB. Euro-area peripheral spreads to German equivalents moved sharply lower, and far-forward inflation compensation recovered modestly.

The manager pro tem turned next to a review of money market developments and Open Market Desk operations. Money market rates generally stabilized at modestly lower levels over the intermeeting period, likely reflecting both the technical adjustment in the interest on excess reserves (IOER) rate following the May FOMC meeting and a sizable increase in reserve balances associated with a decline in balances held by the Treasury in its account at the Federal Reserve. Market participants reported seeing slightly more pass-through from repo rates to the federal funds rate on days with heightened firmness in repo rates. Market participants attributed recent increases in repo rates on month-end and mid-month Treasury auction settlement dates in part to elevated net dealer inventories of Treasury securities, which dealers finance in the repo market.

Regarding open market operations over the period, given the substantial decline in mortgage rates over recent months and an associated increase in refinancing activity, principal payments on the Federal Reserve's holdings of agency mortgage-backed securities (MBS) had recently moved somewhat above the $20 billion monthly redemption cap. As a result, the Desk began in May to reinvest agency MBS principal payments in excess of the cap. Based on current market rates and prepayment forecasts, the Desk expected to reinvest modest amounts of agency MBS over the coming months and possibly again in 2020, particularly during the summer months.

By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Desk's domestic transactions over the intermeeting period. There were no intervention operations in foreign currencies for the System's account during the intermeeting period.