In their review of current and prospective economic developments, members commented that they were encouraged by the recent data on economic activity and the tone of related anecdotal commentary. In their view these developments, in the context of stimulative fiscal and monetary policies, receptive financial conditions, and apparently improving business and consumer confidence, had brightened the prospects for substantial further strengthening of the economy. The members acknowledged that the magnitude of the improvement remained subject to considerable uncertainty, notably with regard to the prospects for business expenditures, and they cited both upside and downside risks to forecasts of a more vigorous expansion. Concerning the prospects for inflation, members expressed the view that even if growth somewhat above the economy's potential were to materialize over the next several quarters, which many regarded as a likely scenario, substantial excess margins of labor and other resources would remain and would continue to hold down overall inflation. Indeed, a number of members saw merit in the staff forecast that some further disinflation was a likely prospect in such circumstances.

Members commented that current financial conditions remained a positive factor in the outlook for the economy even after the recent rise in long-term interest rates. To be sure, the increase would have some restraining effect. Indeed, mortgage refinancing activity appeared to have declined substantially according to some reports, prospectively lessening the support for some consumer and other spending fostered by the extraction of equity from housing. Even so, a number of factors suggested that the risks from higher interest rates might not be large. These included the possibility that the higher rates in part reflected growing optimism about the economic outlook that would engender a faster pace of business spending, more than offsetting the effects of the higher rates on consumer spending. Moreover, long-term interest rates were still relatively low, risk spreads had narrowed in recent months, and stock prices had held firm recently, perhaps in part as a result of several upside surprises in second-quarter profit reports.

Several members reiterated that business spending was the critical factor that would govern to a substantial degree the timing and extent of the acceleration in overall economic activity. Since the year 2000, business capital expenditures had been mostly limited to replacement demand for equipment and software and, with nonresidential construction activity displaying pronounced weakness, total business fixed investment had until recently been on a declining trend. Members were encouraged, however, by evidence in recent months that an upswing in spending for capital equipment and software might be under way, including more purchases by firms of non-high-tech equipment as well as an ongoing rise in purchases of computing equipment and related peripherals. Members also reported some signs of renewed venture capital activity. Several noted that nonresidential building appeared to have stabilized in various parts of the country after a long period of decline, and there were reports that new construction projects had been initiated in some areas. It was clear, nonetheless, that business sentiment toward capital expenditures remained exceptionally cautious. Looking ahead, much would depend on further growth in demand for business products and services and associated evidence of rising profits, building on indications of strengthening in both in recent months. For now, survey and anecdotal reports on business capital spending intentions were somewhat more encouraging than earlier but were still generally mixed, with only a small number of firms planning robust capital spending programs. Indeed, in light of the persistence of substantial margins of underutilized capital, many business contacts indicated that they intended to meet growing demand by adding staff before increasing output capacity.

The weakness in business inventories that had damped the expansion thus far this year appeared to be continuing in the current quarter according to numerous business contacts. However, cautious inventory policies generally had reduced stocks to very low levels in relation to growing sales, and members saw inventory accumulation, starting perhaps late this year, as a plausible expectation. Indeed, in the view of some members, a normal cyclical swing in the accumulation of inventories that would bring the latter into a more usual alignment with growing sales could begin relatively soon and might well be markedly more pronounced than many now anticipated. The potential for such a development constituted a sizable upside risk to current economic forecasts for the quarters ahead.

Consumer spending, buttressed by sales of motor vehicles and other consumer durables, had accelerated in the second quarter from an already elevated level and appeared more recently to be increasing considerably further. The available data pointing to improvement in early summer were limited but were supported by anecdotal information from around the country. Positive factors mentioned with regard to the outlook for the consumer sector included the recent tax cuts, the improved performance of the stock market, the ample availability of household credit, and more generally the effects of rapidly rising productivity in sustaining growth in household incomes. A potential negative cited by some members was the possibility that a weak job market, should it persist, would at some point adversely affect overall consumer sentiment and willingness to spend.

Residential housing sales and construction had remained at elevated levels, evidently stimulated to an important extent by earlier declines in mortgage rates to unusually low levels. Although the appreciable upturn in those rates since midyear appeared to have slowed mortgage refinancing activity, at least in some areas, housing demand had remained buoyant perhaps in part because many homebuyers were attempting to lock in mortgage financing while rates were still low in relation to historical norms. The potential extent of retardation in housing activity stemming from higher mortgage rates was uncertain, but demand for housing was expected to be relatively well maintained, assuming the realization of forecasts of accelerating economic activity and associated growth in personal incomes.

In their comments about the outlook for the foreign sector of the economy, members referred to recent signs of some strengthening in the economies of the nation's important trading partners. However, domestic demand in most of those economies remained relatively weak, and developments abroad were likely to provide little impetus to demand for U.S. exports in the near term. At this point, business contacts tended to emphasize the persistence of strong foreign competition that was constraining their sales in both foreign and domestic markets.

In their review of the outlook for prices, members generally anticipated that key inflation measures would remain near their currently low levels for an extended period. Their assessment focused on the likely persistence of substantial margins of unemployed labor and other resources even if, in line with their expectations, business activity strengthened substantially over coming quarters. Indeed, a number of members expressed the view that some further disinflation was probable over the year ahead. To be sure, inflation would remain subject to a number of crosscurrents. Upward pressures on prices would continue to be exerted by increasing medical insurance and pension costs and, for many manufacturing firms, the rising cost of materials. At the same time, the persistence of very strong competitive pressures, including those arising from foreign competitors, was preventing most business firms from passing on higher costs by raising prices, and this lack of pricing power did not appear to be diminishing. Concurrently, however, many firms were able to maintain or even to increase their profit margins through a variety of cost-cutting and productivity-enhancing measures.

In the Committee's discussion of policy for the intermeeting period ahead, all the members endorsed a proposal to maintain an unchanged policy stance involving reserve conditions consistent with a target federal funds rate of 1 percent. Members noted that the current stance of monetary policy remained quite accommodative and, given the tenor of the latest information on the performance of the economy in the context of generally favorable financial conditions, they believed that policy was appropriately positioned to foster further strengthening of the economic expansion. While the Committee could not commit itself to a particular policy course over time, many of the members referred to the likelihood that the Committee would want to keep policy accommodative for a longer period than had been the practice in past periods of accelerating economic activity. Reasons for such an approach to policy stemmed from the need to encourage progress toward closing the economy's currently wide output gap and, with inflation already near the low end of what some members regarded as an acceptable range, to resist significant further disinflation. In the view of these members, appreciable added disinflation would potentially blunt the effectiveness of further policy easing in the event of strong adverse shocks to the economy. At the same time, maintaining an accommodative policy stance was seen as involving little risk of inducing rising inflation so long as high levels of excess capacity and very competitive markets continued to characterize economic conditions.

The members agreed that, although economic activity had shown signs of firming, the risks to the outlook remained about the same as they had indicated in the previous statement issued after the June meeting. In particular, the risks to the goal of sustainable economic growth were about balanced for the next few quarters and the probability of an unwelcome fall in inflation, though minor, exceeded that of a rise in inflation from its currently low level. On balance, the risk of undesirably low inflation was likely to be the Committee's predominant concern for the foreseeable future. The Committee also decided to include a reference in the announcement to its judgment that under anticipated circumstances policy accommodation could be maintained for a considerable period.

Several members commented that the nature of the Committee's communications had evolved substantially over recent meetings and that it might be useful to schedule a separate session to review current practices. They agreed to do so prior to the next scheduled meeting on September 16.