At its meeting on June 24-25, the Committee adopted a directive that called for lowering the target for the intended federal funds rate 25 basis points, to 1 percent. In reaching this decision, the Committee members generally perceived the upside and downside risks to the attainment of sustainable growth for the next few quarters as roughly equal; however, they viewed the probability, though minor, of a substantial and unwelcome fall in inflation as exceeding that of a pickup in inflation from its already low level. On balance, the Committee believed that the concern about appreciable disinflation was likely to predominate for the foreseeable future.

Longer-term interest rates began to back up after the announcement of the Committee's decision, as market participants had placed substantial odds on a larger policy move and, perhaps, even the release of details on potential unconventional policy actions. Ten-year Treasury yields rose dramatically over the following weeks. The increase appeared to be based on a number of factors, including investors' interpretation of the Chairman's congressional testimony, the release of Committee members' relatively bullish economic projections, and incoming news regarding the economy and corporate earnings that was seen as signaling a more likely upturn in economic growth. In these circumstances, substantial further disinflation probably would not materialize, and the need for further reductions in the federal funds rate or unconventional policy measures would thus be obviated. Yields on high-grade corporate bonds moved up roughly in line with those on Treasury securities, leaving spreads about unchanged. Rates on low-grade corporate bonds rose much less, and spreads over Treasuries on such obligations narrowed significantly. Despite the sharp step-up in Treasury yields, broad equity indexes advanced over the intermeeting period, supported by positive earning reports, strong profit forecasts, and increased confidence regarding economic prospects.

The exchange value of the dollar, as measured by the major foreign currencies index, rose over the intermeeting period as long-term interest rate differentials moved sharply in favor of dollar-denominated assets. Yields on longer-dated government debt of major foreign economies also increased as did many foreign equity indexes.

M2 continued to grow briskly in June and July, reflecting in large part the near-zero opportunity cost of holding money, the effects of mortgage refinancing activity, and the reduction in personal income tax withholdings.