The information reviewed at this meeting suggested that economic activity was mixed in late spring and early summer. The labor market remained weak, and industrial production improved only slightly. Consumer spending, however, advanced further, with brisk growth in expenditures on autos and other durables and more modest expansion in other categories. Homebuilding continued at a robust rate, business spending improved somewhat, and federal government expenditures remained elevated, but these gains were partially offset by fiscal restraint at the state and local government levels. Despite a recent uptick in consumer prices, year-over-year consumer inflation remained at a very low level.

Private nonfarm payroll employment fell in both June and July. Notable losses occurred in manufacturing over the two months, continuing the trend of previous months. Wholesale and retail trade, transportation and utilities, as well as information sectors also reduced their workforces further, while the construction, financial activities, and temporary help sectors continued to add jobs. The average workweek edged down, on net, over June and July. After rising to 6.4 percent in June, the unemployment rate fell to 6.2 percent in July.

Industrial production edged up again in June, with gains in manufacturing offset to some extent by significant weather-related declines in utility production. Available data for July indicated advances in motor vehicle assemblies and in iron and steel output, and also a surge in energy production that was due to abnormally warm weather. Overall industry capacity utilization was about unchanged in June as higher usage in manufacturing and mining was balanced by a sharp decrease at utilities.

Real personal consumption expenditures grew in June and in the second quarter as a whole, largely reflecting a brisk rise in purchases of motor vehicles and other durable goods. Consumption of other goods rose more moderately. Declines in spending on energy in June held down growth in services expenditures. Real disposable income posted a modest gain in the second quarter, and likely was lifted further in July by reduced tax withholding and by refund checks that were mailed out. Consumer confidence readings were mixed in June and July but remained well above their lows earlier in the year.

Boosted by declining mortgage rates, housing construction and sales were robust through June. Single-family housing starts rose in June to one of the highest levels in the past twenty-five years, and new permit issuance was also strong. Multifamily housing starts stayed at about the average level of the previous year and a half. New home sales surged in June, but existing home sales edged down.

Business outlays on equipment and software jumped in the second quarter following a lackluster performance over the preceding half year. Spending on computers and software accelerated sharply, and purchases of communications equipment increased considerably. The transportation category, by contrast, contracted as business spending on motor vehicles stagnated and investment in aircraft decreased. Data on orders and shipments for nondefense capital goods in June pointed to growth in nearly all categories. Expenditures on nonresidential structures turned up in the second quarter as increases in spending on institutional and other structures more than offset declines in expenditures for office and industrial buildings. Office building vacancy rates changed little in the second quarter, while vacancies in industrial buildings rose to record levels.

Nonfarm inventories shrank in the second quarter, with notable declines in manufacturing and wholesale stocks. Inventories relative to shipments and sales were at low levels by historical standards.

The U.S. international trade deficit edged up in May as imports of goods and services increased slightly more than exports. Recent data generally indicated that growth in foreign industrial countries was weak in the second quarter. The economies of Japan and the euro area appeared to have remained stagnant. Canadian economic growth was held back by both the SARS outbreak and the discovery of mad cow disease, although a rebound in employment in June suggested that the weakness was temporary. GDP growth in the United Kingdom showed a moderate rebound in the second quarter.

Overall consumer prices rose a bit in June, led by increases in the volatile food and energy categories. Core consumer prices, however, were unchanged for the month. Over the twelve-month period ending in June, the increase in core consumer prices as measured by both the consumer price index and the chain-type personal consumption expenditure index was notably lower than the rise of the previous year. Higher energy costs pushed up the producer price index in June, but core producer prices ticked down for the month, leaving them slightly below their levels twelve months prior. With regard to labor costs, July average hourly earnings of production or nonsupervisory workers on private nonfarm payrolls advanced at about the same rate as in June. The employment cost index for hourly compensation of private industry workers rose less in the second quarter than in the first quarter. The twelve-month increase was somewhat lower than that for the previous year.