The manager of the System Open Market Account (SOMA) reported on developments in domestic and foreign financial markets over the period since the June FOMC meeting. The intermeeting period was relatively uneventful. Bond yields in advanced economies increased moderately, in part reflecting evolving market perceptions of prospects for foreign monetary policies. U.S. bond yields rose to a smaller degree, and the value of the dollar on foreign exchange markets decreased. Implied volatility in fixed-income markets remained low. Equity prices rose further, with notable advances in indexes for emerging markets.

The increase in the FOMC's target range for the federal funds rate at the June meeting was reflected in other money market interest rates, and the effective federal funds rate was near the middle of the new target range over the intermeeting period except on quarter-end. Take-up at the System's overnight reverse repurchase agreement facility averaged about $200 billion. Conditions in foreign exchange swap markets were fairly stable, and demand at central bank dollar auctions was relatively low. The manager also reported on small-value tests of open market operations, which are conducted routinely to promote operational readiness.

Market expectations for the path of the federal funds rate were little changed. Survey evidence suggested that most market participants now anticipated that the FOMC would announce at its September meeting a date for implementation of a change in reinvestment policy, although a couple of survey respondents expressed the view that the timing could be affected by developments regarding the federal debt ceiling. The survey results also suggested that, while views were somewhat dispersed, respondents typically expected effects on bond yields and spreads on mortgage-backed securities from the change in reinvestment policy to be modest.

By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Open Market Desk's domestic transactions over the intermeeting period. There were no intervention operations in foreign currencies for the System's account during the intermeeting period.