Early in the intermeeting period, uncertainty over trade policy and negative news about the technology sector reportedly contributed to lower prices for risky assets, but these concerns subsequently seemed to recede amid stronger-than-expected corporate earnings reports. Equity prices declined, nominal Treasury yields increased modestly, and market-based measures of inflation compensation ticked up on net. Meanwhile, financing conditions for nonfinancial businesses and households largely remained supportive of spending.

FOMC communications over the intermeeting period were generally viewed by market participants as reflecting an upbeat outlook for economic growth and as consistent with a continued gradual removal of monetary policy accommodation. The FOMC's decision to raise the target range for the federal funds rate 25 basis points at the March meeting was widely anticipated. Market reaction to the release of the March FOMC minutes later in the intermeeting period was minimal. The probability of an increase in the target range for the federal funds rate occurring at the May FOMC meeting, as implied by quotes on federal funds futures contracts, remained close to zero; the probability of an increase at the June FOMC meeting rose to about 90 percent by the end of the intermeeting period. Expected levels of the federal funds rate at the end of 2019 and 2020 implied by OIS rates rose modestly.

The nominal Treasury yield curve continued to flatten over the intermeeting period, with yields on 2-year and 10-year Treasury securities up 17 basis points and 7 basis points, respectively. Measures of inflation compensation derived from Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities increased 4 basis points and 7 basis points at the 5- and 5-to-10-year horizons, respectively, against a backdrop of rising oil prices. Option-implied measures of volatility of longer-term interest rates continued to decline over the intermeeting period after their marked increase earlier this year.

The S&P 500 index decreased over the period on net. Equity prices declined early in the intermeeting period, reportedly in response to trade tensions between the United States and China as well as negative news about the technology sector. However, equity prices subsequently retraced some of the earlier declines as concerns about trade policy seemed to ease and corporate earnings reports for the first quarter of 2018 generally came in stronger than expected. Option-implied volatility on the S&P 500 index at the one-month horizon--the VIX--declined but remained at elevated levels relative to 2017, ending the period at approximately 15 percent. On net, spreads of yields of investment-grade corporate bonds over comparable‑maturity Treasury securities widened a bit, while spreads for speculative‑grade corporate bonds were unchanged.

Conditions in short-term funding markets remained generally stable over the intermeeting period. Spreads on term money market instruments relative to comparable-maturity OIS rates were still larger than usual in some segments of the money market. Reflecting the FOMC's policy action in March, yields on a broad set of money market instruments moved about 25 basis points higher. Bill yields also stayed high relative to OIS rates as cumulative Treasury bill supply remained elevated. Money market dynamics over quarter-end were muted relative to previous quarter-ends.

Foreign equity markets were mixed over the intermeeting period, with investors attuned to developments related to U.S. and Chinese trade policies and to news about the U.S. technology sector. Broad Japanese and European equity indexes outperformed their U.S. counterparts, ending the period somewhat higher. Market-based measures of policy expectations and longer‑term yields were little changed in the euro area and Japan but declined modestly in the United Kingdom on weaker-than-expected economic data. Longer-term yields in Canada moved up moderately amid notably higher oil prices. In EMEs, sovereign bond spreads edged up; capital continued to flow into EME mutual funds, although at a slower pace lately.

On net, the broad nominal dollar index appreciated moderately over the intermeeting period. In the early part of the period, the index depreciated slightly, as relatively positive news about the current round of NAFTA (North American Free Trade Agreement) negotiations led to appreciation of the Mexican peso and Canadian dollar, two currencies with large weights in the index. Later in the period, there was a broad‑based appreciation of the dollar against most currencies as U.S. yields increased relative to those in AFEs and as the Mexican peso declined amid uncertainty associated with the upcoming presidential elections.

Growth in banks' commercial and industrial (C&I) loans strengthened in March and the first half of April following relatively weak growth in January and February. Respondents to the April Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices (SLOOS) reported that their institutions had eased standards and terms on C&I loans in the first quarter, most often citing increased competition from other lenders as the reason for doing so. Gross issuance of corporate bonds and leveraged loans was strong in March, and equity issuance was robust. The credit quality of nonfinancial corporations was stable over the intermeeting period, and the ratio of aggregate debt to assets remained near multidecade highs.

Commercial real estate (CRE) financing conditions remained accommodative over the intermeeting period. CRE loan growth at banks strengthened in March but edged down in the first half of April. Spreads on commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS) were little changed over the intermeeting period and remained near their post-crisis lows. CMBS issuance continued to be strong in March but slowed somewhat in April. Respondents to the April SLOOS reported easing stan­dards on nonfarm nonresidential loans and tightening standards on multifamily loans, whereas standards on construction and land development loans were little changed in the first quarter. Meanwhile, respondents indicated weaker demand for loans across these three CRE loan categories.

Financing conditions in the residential mortgage market remained accommodative for most borrowers in March and April. For borrowers with low credit scores, conditions continued to ease, but credit remained relatively tight and the volume of mortgage loans extended to this group remained low. Banks responding to the April SLOOS reported weaker loan demand across most residential real estate (RRE) loan categories, while standards were reportedly about unchanged for most RRE loan types in the first quarter.

Consumer credit growth moderated in March and the first half of April. Respondents to the April SLOOS reported that standards and terms on auto and credit card loans tightened, and that demand for these loans weakened in the first quarter. On balance, credit remained readily available to prime-rated borrowers, but tight for subprime borrowers, over the intermeeting period.

The staff provided its latest report on potential risks to financial stability; the report again characterized the financial vulnerabilities of the U.S. financial system as moderate on balance. This overall assessment incorporated the staff's judgment that vulnerabilities associated with asset valuation pressures, while having come down a little in recent months, nonetheless continued to be elevated. The staff judged vulnerabilities from financial-sector leverage and maturity and liquidity transformation to be low, vulnerabilities from household leverage as being in the low-to-moderate range, and vulnerabilities from leverage in the nonfinancial business sector as elevated. The staff also characterized overall vulnerabilities to foreign financial stability as moderate while highlighting specific issues in some foreign economies, including--depending on the country--elevated asset valuation pressures, high private or sovereign debt burdens, and political uncertainties.