The information reviewed for the May 1-2 meeting indicated that labor market conditions continued to strengthen in the first quarter, while real gross domestic product (GDP) rose at a moderate pace. Consumer price inflation, as measured by the 12‑month percentage change in the price index for personal consumption expenditures (PCE), was 2 percent in March. Survey-based measures of longer-run inflation expectations were, on balance, little changed.

Total nonfarm payroll employment rose less in March than in the previous two months, but the increase for the first quarter as a whole was solid. The labor force participation rate edged down in March but moved up a little, on net, in the first quarter. The national unemployment rate remained at 4.1 percent for a sixth consecutive month. Similarly, the unemployment rates for African Americans, Asians, and Hispanics were roughly flat, on balance, in recent months. The share of workers employed part time for economic reasons was little changed at a rate close to that prevailing before the previous recession. The rate of private-sector job openings stayed at an elevated level in February, the rate of quits remained high, and initial claims for unemployment insurance benefits continued to be low through mid-April. Recent readings showed that increases in labor compensation stepped up modestly over the past year. The employment cost index for private workers rose 2.8 percent over the 12 months ending in March, and average hourly earnings for all employees increased 2.7 percent over that period. Both increases were larger than those reported for the 12 months ending in March 2017.

Total industrial production increased in March and rose at a solid pace for the first quarter as a whole, with gains in the output of manufacturers, mines, and utilities. Automakers' schedules suggested that assemblies of light motor vehicles would edge down in the second quarter from the average pace in the first quarter, but broader indicators of manufacturing production, such as the new orders indexes from national and regional manufacturing surveys, continued to point to further gains in factory output in the near term.

Consumer expenditures rose at a modest pace in the first quarter following a strong gain in the preceding quarter. Monthly data pointed to some improvement toward the end of the quarter, as real PCE moved up in March after declining in January and February. However, the recent movements might have partly reflected the effects of a delay in many federal tax refunds, which could have shifted some consumer spending from February to March. Light motor vehicle sales stepped down in the first quarter after a strong fourth-quarter pace that was partly boosted by replacement sales following the fall hurricanes; sales declined in April, but indicators of vehicle demand remained upbeat. More broadly, key factors that influence consumer spending--including gains in employment and real disposable personal income, along with households' elevated net worth--should continue to support solid real PCE growth in the near term. In addition, the lower tax withholding resulting from the tax cuts enacted late last year was likely to provide some impetus to spending in coming months. Consumer sentiment, as measured by the University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers, remained elevated in April.

Real residential investment was unchanged in the first quarter after a strong increase in the fourth quarter. Starts for new single-family homes decreased in March, but the average pace in the first quarter was little changed from the fourth quarter. In contrast, starts of multifamily units moved up in March after contracting in February, and they were higher in the first quarter than in the fourth. Sales of both new and existing homes increased in February and March.

Real private expenditures for business equipment and intellectual property increased at a moderate pace in the first quarter after rising briskly in the second half of last year. Nominal shipments of nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft edged down in March. However, forward-looking indicators of business equipment spending--such as the backlog of unfilled capital goods orders, along with upbeat readings on business sentiment from national and regional surveys--continued to point to robust gains in equipment spending in the near term. Real business expenditures for nonresidential structures rose at a robust pace in the first quarter, and the number of crude oil and natural gas rigs in operation--an indicator of business spending for structures in the drilling and mining sector--continued to move up through mid-April.

Total real government purchases rose at a slower rate in the first quarter than in the fourth quarter. Real federal purchases increased in the first quarter, with gains in both defense and nondefense spending. Real purchases by state and local governments also moved higher; state and local government payrolls were unchanged in the first quarter, but nominal construction spending by these governments rose somewhat.

The nominal U.S. international trade deficit widened in February as imports rose briskly, outpacing the increase in exports. Preliminary data on trade in goods suggested that the trade deficit narrowed sharply in March, with exports continuing to grow robustly but imports retracing earlier gains. The Bureau of Economic Analysis estimated that the change in real net exports added slightly to growth of real GDP in the first quarter.

Total U.S. consumer prices, as measured by the PCE price index, increased 2 percent over the 12 months ending in March. Core PCE price inflation, which excludes changes in consumer food and energy prices, was 1.9 percent over that same period. The consumer price index (CPI) rose 2.4 percent over the 12 months ending in March, while core CPI inflation was 2.1 percent. Recent readings on survey-based measures of longer-run inflation expectations--including those from the Michigan survey, the Survey of Professional Forecasters, and the Desk's Survey of Primary Dealers and Survey of Market Participants--were little changed on balance.

Incoming data suggested that foreign economic activity continued to expand at a solid pace. Real GDP growth picked up in the first quarter in several emerging market economies (EMEs), including Mexico, China, and some other parts of emerging Asia. However, incoming data in a number of advanced foreign economies (AFEs)--in particular, real GDP in the United Kingdom--showed somewhat slower growth than market participants were expecting, partly because of transitory factors such as severe weather. Overall, inflation in most AFEs and EMEs continued to be subdued, increasing in the AFEs in the first quarter on higher energy prices but stepping down some in the EMEs, partly reflecting lower food prices in some Asian economies.