In their discussion of the economic situation and outlook, meeting participants generally characterized the economic information received during the intermeeting period as indicating a slowing in the pace of recovery in output and employment in recent months. Real GDP growth was noticeably weaker in the second quarter of 2010 than most had anticipated, and monthly data suggested that the pace of recovery remained sluggish going into the third quarter. Private payrolls and consumer spending had risen less than expected. Business spending on equipment and software had increased strongly but reportedly was concentrated in replacements and upgrades that had been postponed during the economic downturn. Investment in nonresidential structures continued to be weak. Housing starts and sales remained at depressed levels, falling back after the expiration of the temporary homebuyer tax credits. The incoming data suggested that economic growth abroad had been somewhat stronger than anticipated and remained solid, boosting U.S. exports and supporting a pickup in U.S. manufacturing output and employment, though a surprising surge in imports in the second quarter widened the U.S. trade deficit. Conditions in financial markets had become somewhat more supportive of growth over the intermeeting period, in part reflecting perceptions of diminished risk of financial dislocations in Europe: Medium- and longer-term interest rates had fallen, some risk spreads had narrowed, and the decline in equity prices that had occurred in the months before the Committee's June meeting had been partly reversed. Moreover, participants saw some indications that credit conditions for households and smaller businesses were beginning to improve, albeit gradually. Thus, while they saw growth as likely to be more modest in the near term, participants continued to anticipate that growth would pick up in 2011.

Revised national income and product account data showed that the contraction in aggregate output during the recent recession had been larger than previously reported. In particular, consumer spending had contracted more over the course of 2008 and the first half of 2009, and recovered less rapidly, than previously estimated, even as households' after-tax incomes had increased more than shown by the earlier data. In combination, these revisions indicated that the personal saving rate had been higher and had risen somewhat more during the past three years than previously thought. Participants recognized that the implications of these new data for the outlook were unclear. On the one hand, the revised data might indicate that households have made greater progress in repairing their balance sheets than had been realized, potentially allowing stronger growth in consumer spending as the recovery proceeds. On the other hand, the revised data might signify that households are seeking to raise their net worth more substantially than previously understood, or to build greater precautionary balances in what they perceive to be a more uncertain economic environment, with the result that growth in consumer spending could remain restrained for some time.

Many participants noted that the protracted downturn in house prices and in residential investment seemed to have ended, although ups and downs in housing starts and home sales associated with the temporary tax credit for homebuyers made it difficult to be certain. A few commented that home sales and prices appeared to be edging up in their Districts. While recognizing that the housing sector likely had bottomed out, participants observed that large inventories of vacant and unsold homes, along with continuing foreclosures that would increase the number of houses for sale, likely would continue to damp residential construction, indicating that a sustained upturn from very low levels was not imminent.

Business investment in equipment and software had grown at a robust pace, but growth in new orders for nondefense capital goods, though volatile from month to month, appeared to have stepped down. Many participants noted that capital investment was heavily concentrated in replacement investment and upgrades that firms had postponed during the economic downturn. A number of participants reported that business contacts again indicated that their uncertainty about the fiscal and regulatory environment made them reluctant to expand capacity. Other participants cited business surveys and reports from business contacts indicating that slow growth in sales and uncertainty about the strength and durability of the recovery likely were more important factors. Except in the extractive industries (drilling and mining), investment in nonresidential structures had continued to decline. The near-term outlook for commercial real estate investment remained weak despite a decline in vacancy rates in some markets.

Participants agreed that credit conditions did not appear to be an important restraint on investment spending by larger firms that have access to the capital markets. Such firms were able to borrow readily and at relatively low rates; moreover, many businesses held substantial cash balances. In addition, survey results suggested that a sizable fraction of banks had eased loan terms, and a few had eased lending standards, on C&I loans. Some participants observed that small businesses continued to find credit hard to obtain. However, several participants noted recent survey evidence indicating that most small firms that requested credit were able to borrow, and that relatively few small firms thought that access to credit was their most important problem. Standards for commercial real estate loans and residential mortgages remained very tight, and banks did not appear to be easing standards on such loans. Some limited easing of lending standards was noted for consumer loans, but credit availability remained a constraint and consumer credit continued to contract. However, several participants noted that with credit quality improving, some bankers were more actively seeking loan growth, though the same bankers also indicated that the demand for loans remained weak.

Many participants noted that European countries' efforts to address their fiscal imbalances, and the release of the results of the stress test of European banks along with information about their exposures to sovereign debt, had reduced investor concern about downside risks in Europe. These factors appeared to have supported improvements in financial markets both here and abroad. Moreover, growth in Europe and Asia apparently remained solid, boosting U.S. exports. Nonetheless, a continuation of strong foreign growth would require a pickup in private demand abroad to offset a decline in policy stimulus and a smaller boost from inventory investment. Several participants noted that the same shift in the sources of demand would need to take place in the United States: Waning fiscal stimulus on the part of the federal government and continuing retrenchment in spending by state and local governments would weigh on the economic recovery, and recent data raised questions as to whether private demand would strengthen enough to increase resource utilization.

The incoming data on the labor market were weaker than meeting participants had anticipated. Private-sector payrolls grew sluggishly in recent months. The unemployment rate declined a bit, but that reflected a decrease in labor force participation rather than an increase in employment. Policymakers discussed a variety of factors that appeared to be contributing to the slow pace of job growth. A number of participants reported that business contacts again indicated that uncertainty about future taxes, regulations, and health-care costs made them reluctant to expand their workforces. Instead, businesses had continued to meet growth in demand for their products largely through productivity gains and by increasing existing employees' hours. Several participants suggested that structural factors such as mismatches between unemployed workers' skills and the needs of employers with job openings, or unemployed workers' inability to move to a new locale, were contributing to the elevated level and long average duration of unemployment. Other participants, while agreeing that such factors could restrain job growth and contribute to high rates of unemployment, noted that employment was lower than a year earlier and that job openings were only slightly above their lowest level in 10 years, indicating that few firms saw a need to add employees. Most participants viewed weak demand for firms' outputs as the primary problem; they saw substantial scope for stronger aggregate demand for goods and services to spur employment in a wide range of industries.

Weighing the available information, participants again expected the recovery to continue and to gather strength in 2011. Nonetheless, most saw the incoming data as indicating that the economy was operating farther below its potential than they had thought, that the pace of recovery had slowed in recent months, and that growth would be more modest during the second half of 2010 than they had anticipated at the time of the Committee's June meeting. Some policymakers whose forecasts for growth had been in the low end of the range of participants' earlier projections viewed the recent data as consistent with their earlier forecasts for a weak recovery. A few participants, observing that month-to-month data releases are noisy and subject to revision, did not see the recent data as clearly indicating a change in the outlook. Many policymakers judged that downside risks to the U.S. recovery had become somewhat larger; a few saw the incoming data as suggesting a greater risk that private demand for goods and services might not grow enough to offset waning fiscal stimulus and a smaller impetus from inventory restocking. In contrast, most saw a reduced risk of financial turmoil in Europe and attendant spillovers to U.S. financial markets.

Policymakers generally saw the inflation outlook as little changed. They observed that a range of measures continued to indicate subdued underlying inflation and that growth in wages and compensation remained quite moderate. Many said they expected underlying inflation to stay, for some time, below levels they judged most consistent with the dual mandate to promote maximum employment and price stability. Participants viewed the risk of deflation as quite small, but a number judged that the risk of further disinflation had increased somewhat despite the stability of longer-run inflation expectations. One noted that survey measures of longer-run inflation expectations had remained positive in Japan throughout that country's bout of deflation. A few saw the continuation of exceptionally accommodative monetary policy in the United States as posing some upside risk to inflation expectations and actual inflation in the medium run.