The decision taken by the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) at its June meeting to maintain the 0 to 1/4 percent target range for the federal funds rate was about in line with investor expectations and elicited little market reaction; the same was true of the wording of the accompanying statement. Over the intermeeting period, investors appeared to mark down the path for monetary policy in response to weaker-than-expected economic data releases and Federal Reserve communications that were read as suggesting that policymakers' concerns about the economic outlook had increased.

Reflecting the same factors, yields on nominal Treasury coupon securities fell noticeably on net. Treasury auctions were generally well received, with bid-to-cover ratios mostly exceeding historical averages. Yields on investment- and speculative-grade corporate bonds decreased, and their spreads relative to yields on comparable-maturity Treasury securities declined moderately. Secondary-market bid prices on syndicated leveraged loans rose a bit, while bid-asked spreads in that market edged down.

Conditions in short-term funding markets improved somewhat over the intermeeting period. Spreads of term London interbank offered rates (Libor) over rates on overnight index swaps moved down at most horizons, and liquidity in term funding markets reportedly increased. Spreads on unsecured commercial paper were little changed. In secured funding markets, spreads on asset-backed commercial paper moved down, while rates and haircuts on collateral for repurchase agreements involving Treasury and agency collateral held steady.

Broad U.S. equity price indexes increased slightly, on net, as generally positive corporate earnings news and an easing of investors' worries about the potential effects of fiscal strains in Europe were partly offset by concerns about the strength of the economic recovery. Most firms in the S&P 500 reported second-quarter earnings that exceeded analysts' forecasts. Option-implied volatility on the S&P 500 index declined but remained somewhat elevated by historical standards. The spread between the staff's estimate of the expected real return on equities over the next 10 years and an estimate of the expected real return on a 10-year Treasury note--a rough measure of the equity risk premium--was little changed at an elevated level. Financial stock prices moved about in line with broader indexes, and credit default swap spreads for large financial institutions narrowed moderately.

Gross bond issuance by U.S. investment-grade nonfinancial corporations rebounded in July from relatively subdued levels in May and June. Nonfinancial commercial paper outstanding also increased. Issuance of syndicated leveraged loans rose in the second quarter, but terms on such deals reportedly tightened somewhat. Measures of the credit quality of nonfinancial firms remained solid. Gross equity issuance was moderate in June and July.

Prices of commercial real estate appeared to have increased in the second quarter, though the number of transactions was small. Nonetheless, commercial real estate markets remained under pressure. Delinquency rates for securitized commercial mortgages continued to rise in June, and commercial mortgage debt was estimated to have contracted by a sizable amount again in the second quarter. However, investor demand for high-quality commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS) reportedly was robust, although issuance of CMBS remained muted.

Consumer credit contracted again in the second quarter, as revolving credit continued to decline and nonrevolving credit edged down. Issuance of consumer asset-backed securities slowed a bit in July, reflecting, in part, typical seasonal patterns. Consumer credit quality continued to show improvement. Delinquency and charge-off rates for most types of consumer loans moved down in recent months, although these rates remained elevated. Spreads of credit card interest rates over those on Treasury securities stayed elevated in May, while interest rate spreads on auto loans remained near their average level over the past decade.

Commercial banks' core loans--the sum of commercial and industrial (C&I), real estate, and consumer loans--continued to contract in June and July. However, the recent runoff in core loans was appreciably smaller than the declines posted earlier in the year, reflecting a more modest contraction in C&I loans. The July Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices showed, for the second straight quarter, that a small net fraction of respondents had eased standards for C&I loans over the previous three months. Commercial real estate loans continued to decline steeply in June and July, and residential real estate loans also decreased. Consumer loans at commercial banks were about flat, on balance, as reductions in credit card loans about offset an increase in nonrevolving consumer loans. Securities holdings by banks increased substantially in recent weeks.

M2 was little changed in July after expanding slightly in the second quarter. Its subdued growth in recent months likely reflected a continued unwinding of earlier safe-haven flows as well as the very low rates of return on some components of M2, particularly small time deposits and retail money market mutual funds.

In foreign exchange markets, the value of the dollar declined on balance over the intermeeting period, likely reflecting some reversal of flight-to-safety flows, better-than-expected European economic data, and the softer economic outlook for the United States. The release of the results of the European Union stress-test exercise, including data on European banks' exposures to sovereign debt, appeared to ease concerns about the potential for severe financial dislocations in Europe. Investors also seemed to take comfort from several oversubscribed auctions of government debt by Spain, Portugal, Ireland, and Greece. Accordingly, risk spreads on these governments' bonds, though elevated, generally declined, and European banks' access to dollar funding improved somewhat. The lack of any disruption to market functioning following the expiration, on July 1, of the European Central Bank's first one-year refinancing operation also supported investor sentiment. Market indicators of expectations for future overnight rates in the euro area shifted up during the period. No changes were made to policy interest rates in the euro area, the United Kingdom, or Japan. The Bank of Canada tightened policy a step further during the period, raising its target for the overnight rate 25 basis points to 3/4 percent.

Notwithstanding the improved investor sentiment toward Europe, data releases pointing to lower-than-expected growth in economic activity in the United States and China may have weighed on global sovereign bond yields, which declined on net in Canada, Germany, the United Kingdom, and Japan. Equity prices, while up in Europe over the intermeeting period, were little changed in Canada and down in Japan. By contrast, share prices rose in emerging markets and flows into emerging market equity funds continued to be strong. The central banks of a number of EMEs, including Brazil, Chile, India, Malaysia, South Korea, Taiwan, and Thailand, increased policy interest rates.