The information reviewed at the August 10 meeting indicated that the pace of the economic recovery slowed in recent months and that inflation remained subdued. In addition, revised data for 2007 through 2009 from the Bureau of Economic Analysis showed that the recent recession was deeper than previously thought, and, as a result, the level of real gross domestic product (GDP) at the end of 2009 was noticeably lower than estimated earlier. Private employment increased slowly in June and July, and industrial production was little changed in June after a large increase in May. Consumer spending continued to rise at a modest rate in June, and business outlays for equipment and software moved up further. However, housing activity dropped back, and nonresidential construction remained weak. Additionally, the trade deficit widened sharply in May. A further decline in energy prices and unchanged prices for core goods and services led to a fall in headline consumer prices in June.

Private nonfarm employment expanded slowly in recent months. The average monthly gain in private payroll employment during the three months ending in July was small, considerably less than the average increase over the preceding three months. However, average weekly hours of all employees continued to recover. The net addition of jobs in manufacturing and related industries, and in nonbusiness services such as health and education, continued to contribute importantly to the net increase in private employment. Employment in construction and financial activities fell further. The unemployment rate moved down in June from its level earlier in the year, and was unchanged in July, as declining civilian employment was accompanied by decreases in labor force participation. Initial claims for unemployment insurance remained at an elevated level over the intermeeting period.

Industrial production was little changed in June after three months of strong increases. The output of utilities was boosted by unseasonably hot weather while manufacturing production declined. The drop in manufacturing output included a reduction in motor vehicle assemblies, but they were scheduled to increase noticeably in July. The June decrease in factory output also reflected weaker production in industries producing non-automotive consumer goods and construction and business supplies. The output of high-technology items and other business equipment continued to rise. Capacity utilization in manufacturing in June stood well above its mid-2009 low, but it was still substantially short of its longer-run average.

Revised data indicated that consumer spending fell more sharply in 2008 and in the first half of 2009, and subsequently recovered more slowly, than previously estimated. Real personal consumption expenditures (PCE) rose gradually during the second quarter. Sales of light motor vehicles continued to move up, on balance, with the level of sales in July slightly higher than the second-quarter average. Real disposable personal income increased at a noticeably stronger pace than spending in recent months, and the personal saving rate moved up further from the upwardly revised level reported in the revisions to the national income and product accounts. Indicators of household net worth--such as stock prices and house prices--were little changed, on net, over the intermeeting period. Consumer confidence fell back in July, with households expressing greater concern about their personal finances and the outlook for the recovery.

The housing market, which had been supported earlier in the year by activity associated with the homebuyer tax credits, was quite soft for a second consecutive month in June. Sales of new single-family homes rebounded some in June after their sharp drop in May, but they remained at a depressed level. Sales of existing homes fell for a second month in June, and the index of pending home sales suggested another decline in July. Starts of new single-family houses, which had dropped steeply in May, edged down in June to the lowest level since the spring of 2009. The low number of new permits issued in June appeared to signal that little improvement in new homebuilding was likely in July. House prices were largely stable, on balance, in recent months. The interest rate on 30-year fixed-rate conforming mortgages fell further during July, reaching a record low for the 39-year history of the series.

Real business spending on equipment and software rose strongly again in the second quarter, with increases widespread across the categories of spending. New orders for nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft remained on a solid uptrend, although their three-month change for the period ending in June was less rapid than earlier in the year. Survey indicators of business conditions and sentiment softened in July but remained consistent with further gains in production and capital spending in the near term. Business investment in nonresidential structures turned up in the second quarter, with spending boosted by the rise in outlays for drilling and mining structures. The decline in spending for other types of nonresidential buildings appeared to be slowing, and there were a few signs that financial conditions in commercial real estate markets, though still difficult, were stabilizing. In the second quarter, businesses appeared to add to inventories at a faster rate. However, ratios of inventories to sales for most industries did not point to any sizable overhangs.

Inflation remained subdued in recent months. Headline consumer prices declined in May and June because of sizable drops in consumer energy prices. At the same time, the core PCE price index moved up only slightly, and the year-over-year increase in the index in June was lower than earlier in the year. In recent months, prices of core consumer goods continued to decline while prices of non-energy services rose moderately. At earlier stages of production, producer prices of core intermediate materials fell back in June; in contrast, most indexes of spot commodity prices moved up during July. Inflation compensation based on Treasury inflation-protected securities moved down further over the intermeeting period, partly in response to softer-than-expected data on economic activity, but survey measures of short- and long-term inflation expectations were largely stable.

Nominal hourly labor compensation--as measured by compensation per hour in the nonfarm business sector and the employment cost index--rose modestly during the year ending in the second quarter. Average hourly earnings of all employees rose slowly over the 12 months ending in July. Output per hour in the nonfarm business sector declined in the second quarter after rising rapidly in the preceding three quarters. On net, unit labor costs remained well below their level one year earlier.

The U.S. international trade deficit widened sharply in May, as a significant increase in exports was more than offset by a surge in imports. The corresponding decline in real net exports made a significant negative contribution to U.S. GDP growth in the second quarter. The increase in exports was broadly based, with particular strength in exports of capital equipment. Imports of capital goods also were strong, as were imports of consumer goods and automotive products. In contrast, imports of petroleum products fell in May, held back by both lower prices and reduced volumes.

Available data suggested that aggregate GDP growth in foreign economies remained strong in the second quarter. Recent indicators of economic activity for the euro area showed little imprint of the fiscal stresses that emerged in the spring. Industrial production continued to grow in May, with particularly solid gains in Germany and France, and purchasing managers indexes and economic sentiment turned up in July. In Japan, exports continued to support economic growth, even as indicators of household spending remained weak. Machinery orders declined in May, however, and industrial production moved down in June, suggesting some deceleration in economic activity. In the emerging market economies (EMEs), incoming data generally pointed to a moderation of economic growth, albeit to a still-solid pace, with a notable slowing in China in the second quarter. In other EMEs, purchasing managers indexes generally still pointed to expansions in manufacturing activity, though industrial production in many countries began to decelerate. In contrast, Mexican indicators suggested that economic activity rebounded in the second quarter after contracting in the first quarter. Headline inflation rates generally declined abroad, reflecting prior declines in oil and other commodity prices.