In the Committee's discussion of monetary policy for the intermeeting period, all members favored raising the target federal funds rate 25 basis points to 4 percent at this meeting. The economy seemed to be growing at a fairly strong pace, despite the temporary disruptions associated with the hurricanes, and underlying economic slack was likely quite limited. In that context, all members believed it important to continue removing monetary policy accommodation in order to check upside risks to inflation and keep inflation expectations contained, but noted that policy setting would need to be increasingly sensitive to incoming economic data. Some members cautioned that risks of going too far with the tightening process could also eventually emerge. Nonetheless, all members agreed to indicate at the conclusion of this meeting that a continued measured pace of policy firming remained likely.

In their ongoing discussion of the Committee's communication strategy, participants expressed a variety of perspectives about how the policy statement issued at the end of FOMC meetings might evolve over time. Several aspects of the statement language would have to be changed before long, particularly those related to the characterization of and outlook for policy. Possible future changes in the sentence on the balance of risks to the Committee's objectives were also discussed. Participants noted that any forward-looking elements of the statement should clearly be conditioned on the outlook for inflation and economic growth. For this meeting, members concurred that the current statement structure could be retained, as it accurately conveyed their near-term economic and policy outlook.

In view of the continued rapid pace of observed productivity gains, members agreed that the statement to be released after the meeting should again indicate that robust underlying productivity growth and monetary policy accommodation were supporting the economic expansion. Those influences were expected to be augmented by planned rebuilding and recovery activity in hurricane-affected areas. While gasoline prices had recently moved lower, the cumulative rise in energy prices and other costs was seen as having the potential to add to inflation pressures. However, core inflation had been subdued in recent months and longer-run inflation expectations remained contained. Against that backdrop, the risks to the objective of price stability, as well as that for sustainable growth, remained in balance, given appropriate monetary policy actions.

At the conclusion of the discussion, the Committee voted to authorize and direct the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, until it was instructed otherwise, to execute transactions in the System Account in accordance with the following domestic policy directive:

"The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions that will foster price stability and promote sustainable growth in output. To further its long-run objectives, the Committee in the immediate future seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with increasing the federal funds rate to an average of around 4 percent."
The vote encompassed approval of the paragraph below for inclusion in the statement to be released shortly after the meeting:

"The Committee perceives that, with appropriate monetary policy action, the upside and downside risks to the attainment of both sustainable growth and price stability should be kept roughly equal. With underlying inflation expected to be contained, the Committee believes that policy accommodation can be removed at a pace that is likely to be measured. Nonetheless, the Committee will respond to changes in economic prospects as needed to fulfill its obligation to maintain price stability."
Votes for this action: Messrs. Greenspan and Geithner, Ms. Bies, Messrs. Ferguson, Fisher, Kohn, Olson, Moskow, Santomero, and Stern.

Votes against this action: None

It was agreed that the next meeting of the Committee would be held on Tuesday, December 13, 2005.

The meeting adjourned at 1:15 p.m.

Notation Vote
By notation vote completed on October 7, 2005, the Committee unanimously approved the minutes of the meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee held on September 20, 2005.