With investors putting only small odds on a pause in the tightening cycle following Hurricane Katrina, there was little market reaction to the Committee's decision at the September meeting. However, the expected path for monetary policy shifted up in subsequent weeks, as incoming data indicated that output had been expanding briskly prior to the hurricanes and that the disruptions to economic activity from the hurricanes were likely to be less severe than initially feared. This upward pressure on interest rates may have been amplified by comments from a number of Federal Reserve officials that were read as stressing inflation concerns. Nominal Treasury yields rose in line with the shift in the outlook for monetary policy. Despite a large increase in the overall consumer price index for September, measures of inflation compensation calculated using yields on nominal and inflation-protected Treasury securities were about unchanged over the intermeeting period, although they remained a bit above the levels seen before Hurricane Katrina. As broad indexes of investment- and speculative-grade corporate bond yields moved largely in line with Treasury yields over the period, spreads were little changed. Major stock price indexes fell moderately and the trade-weighted foreign exchange value of the dollar appreciated slightly over the intermeeting period.

Domestic nonfinancial debt appeared to have advanced briskly in the third quarter. Growth in household debt was estimated to have edged down in the third quarter because of a slowing in mortgage debt growth but remained elevated. Household bankruptcies surged in the weeks immediately before bankruptcy reforms went into effect on October 17. The debt of nonfinancial businesses rose in the third quarter at a rate comparable to the increases seen in the first half of the year. Bank loans to businesses continued to advance briskly, and the results of the October Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey showed some further easing of lending terms and standards for such loans. M2 expanded at a fairly solid rate in September. The increase in September was in part attributable to a boost to currency and liquid deposits resulting from Hurricane Katrina. Growth in nominal output in the third quarter exceeded that of M2, implying a further rise in velocity.