The information reviewed at this meeting suggested that the economy had a good deal of forward momentum in the third quarter. Although recent hurricanes caused considerable damage and disruption, particularly in the energy sector, economic activity outside the Gulf region appeared to have been well maintained. In September, hiring in other regions remained in line with its pace over the preceding twelve months, and excluding the estimated effects of the hurricanes and a strike by Boeing machinists, industrial production increased briskly. In addition, residential construction remained buoyant. Consumer spending, however, showed some signs of weakening. Although consumer spending was strong for the third quarter as a whole, it softened in September, and survey measures of consumer confidence slumped noticeably. Despite the large increase in consumer energy prices since midyear, core price inflation was restrained through September.

Hurricane Rita caused further disruption to energy production in the Gulf area, which had not yet fully recovered from Hurricane Katrina. Energy production in October was still below pre-hurricane levels, although progress had been made in reopening shut-down energy facilities. Rising imports, along with more-subdued consumption of gasoline and other petroleum products, helped to offset the effect on energy prices of some of the output losses in refined products. In addition, to address the low level of gasoline inventories and more-immediate retail demands, domestic refiners sharply increased the share of gasoline in their output of total refined product. Wholesale and retail gasoline prices spiked soon after Rita's landfall but had since declined to pre-hurricane levels. Spot prices for natural gas soared with the hurricanes and remained at elevated levels.

Payroll employment fell in September, held down by substantial job losses associated with Hurricane Katrina. Employment in the areas unaffected by the hurricane increased at a rate in line with the average pace over the previous twelve months. The largest employment loss occurred in the leisure and hospitality category, an industry particularly hard hit by the storm. The average workweek was unchanged in September, so with employment lower, aggregate hours declined slightly. The unemployment rate rose 0.2 percentage points to 5.1 percent. The labor force participation rate held steady, but the number of individuals reporting that they had a job but were not at work because of bad weather surged. More recently, weekly data on initial claims for unemployment insurance suggested that the job losses associated with the hurricane were subsiding.

Industrial production fell substantially in September, but excluding the effects of hurricane-related disturbances and the Boeing strike, industrial production was estimated to have risen at a brisk pace. The hurricanes caused the index for oil and natural gas extraction and refining to plummet in September, and they also significantly affected petrochemical production. Manufacturing output fell noticeably in the shipbuilding, food manufacturing, paper, and plywood industries. In the transportation equipment category, motor vehicle production climbed notably, but the machinists' strike at Boeing caused the company to cease nearly all commercial aircraft production during the month. High-tech output--led by strong gains in the production of semiconductors and communications equipment--surged in September. Manufacturing capacity utilization dropped substantially in September, but was still noticeably above its year-earlier level.

Real consumer spending increased at a moderate rate in the third quarter as a whole, although it declined in August and September after having risen substantially earlier in the summer. The softening in spending of late reflected in part the diminishing boost to light vehicle sales from manufacturers' programs offering employee discounts to nonemployees. Spending on other goods and services was also sluggish, likely because of the direct effects of the dislocation of households by the hurricanes, high energy prices, and falling consumer confidence. Consumer sentiment in October, as measured by both the Michigan Survey and the Conference Board's indicator, dropped a little further after plunging in September. The personal saving rate remained slightly negative in September.

Residential construction continued at a robust pace. In September, new single-family homes were started at a rate a bit above their elevated average rate in the first half of the year, and permit issuance jumped to a new high. New home sales remained substantial in August, but they were below July's elevated level. Although they remained low by historical standards, both the thirty-year fixed mortgage rate and the one-year adjustable rate had moved up a bit in recent months and were notably above the levels seen at the beginning of the year. The average selling price of existing homes rose in the twelve months ending in September at about the same rapid clip as a year earlier, but the average selling price of new homes rose more slowly over the past few months.

Real outlays for equipment and software were sluggish in the summer, but a broad-based pickup in orders for and shipments of nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft in August suggested some firming. Investment fundamentals remained relatively solid, including continued expansion in business sales, a declining cost of capital, and corporate balance sheets that were flush with cash. Surveys of executive sentiment squared well with the fundamentals: Although business leaders expressed some misgivings about the overall macroeconomic environment, their stated capital spending intentions pointed to increasing investment. Vacancy rates for nonresidential properties continued to edge lower, but they remained elevated for office and industrial properties, and real spending on new construction had yet to improve materially.

Business investment in real nonfarm inventories was subdued over the summer. Although inventory-to-sales ratios moved down some in July and August, businesses did not appear dissatisfied with their level of stocks. For example, September results from the Institute for Supply Management survey indicated that respondents viewed their customers' current inventory situation as reasonably well aligned with demand.

The U.S. international trade deficit widened somewhat in August, as a surge in imports of goods and services was partially offset by a sizable gain in exports. The growth in imports reflected both a marked increase in oil imports and a rise in nonoil goods; imports of services were little changed. The increase in exports was driven by higher merchandise exports, although exports of services also advanced a bit. GDP growth in foreign industrial economies appeared to have continued at a moderate pace in the third quarter.

Soaring energy prices have boosted overall measures of consumer price inflation in recent months. However, measures of core consumer price inflation were much more restrained. The twelve-month change in core consumer prices through September was about unchanged from its year-earlier level. One survey of households in October found that expectations for inflation over the coming year rose to a level well above the readings that had prevailed over the spring and summer, presumably in response to rising energy prices. However, median expectations for inflation over the next five to ten years were only a little above the average range reported in recent years. With regard to labor costs, the employment cost index for private industry workers rose at a moderate pace in the third quarter, up somewhat from its second-quarter pace, but the twelve-month change in the index declined from that of a year earlier. Hourly compensation in the nonfarm business sector was estimated to have also risen at a moderate rate in the third quarter.

At its September meeting, the Federal Open Market Committee decided to increase the target level of the federal funds rate 25 basis points, to 3¾ percent. In its accompanying statement, the Committee indicated that, with appropriate monetary policy action, the upside and downside risks to the attainment of sustainable growth and price stability should be kept roughly equal. The Committee noted that the widespread devastation in the Gulf region from Hurricane Katrina, the associated dislocation of economic activity, and the boost to energy prices would set back spending, production, and employment in the near term. However, the Committee judged that these unfortunate developments did not pose a more persistent threat to the overall economy. Rather, monetary policy accommodation, coupled with robust underlying growth in productivity, was providing ongoing support to economic activity. Although higher energy and other costs had the potential to add to inflation pressure, core inflation had been relatively low in the preceding few months and longer-term inflation expectations remained contained. In these circumstances, the Committee believed that policy accommodation could be removed at a pace that would likely be measured but noted that it would respond to changes in economic prospects as needed to fulfill its obligation to maintain price stability.