Meeting participants generally saw accumulating evidence as supporting the view that the disruptions to aggregate economic activity and employment from the hurricanes were likely to be limited and temporary. In areas that had been devastated by the hurricanes, recovery of energy production and the rebuilding of homes and businesses might take longer than had been expected, in part because of a slow return of evacuees. However, in regions just outside those that were most severely damaged, recovery was already well underway, and the pace of economic activity had strengthened, in some cases owing to spending by relocated households. Reconstruction along the Gulf Coast would likely pick up substantially in the next couple of quarters.

In the household sector, spending seemed to have held up fairly well, aside from a drop in purchases of autos. Some participants noted, however, that the erosion of consumer confidence, still-elevated gasoline prices, and the prospect of higher heating bills might augur weakness ahead. The housing market had remained robust, although a slowing in house price gains in some areas and recent declines in home equity lending at banks could be indicating that the long-expected cooling in the housing market was near. Motor vehicle purchases had slowed substantially in October, but that seemed to owe primarily to the end of discount programs that had generated a surge in auto spending over the summer. Over the longer-term, with house price gains moderating and perhaps greater perceived needs to invest for retirement purposes, the household saving rate was likely to rise gradually.

Growth in business investment spending seemed to remain moderate overall, but anecdotal reports suggested that a number of firms had boosted their plans for capital spending. Moreover, construction spending and commercial real estate investment seemed to be picking up in some areas. Significant problems persisted amongst U.S. nameplates in the auto sector, however. The rise in longer-term real interest rates and some widening of private credit spreads in recent months were seen as perhaps having a little restraining effect on the investment outlook.

Economic growth in the near term was likely to be boosted by additional fiscal stimulus, in part to support recovery and rebuilding from the hurricanes. Strong demand from overseas was evidently boosting exports this year by more than the increase in imports, with the nation's external accounts thereby providing a small net positive contribution to growth in domestic production. Next year, however, the arithmetic contribution to growth from net exports was seen as likely to return to negative territory.

While participants noted some recent favorable data on core inflation and labor costs, upside risks to the outlook for underlying inflation remained a key concern. Wage gains had remained modest relative to continued strong productivity growth, suggesting that labor costs were not putting much upward pressure on prices. Indeed, core inflation continued to be subdued, and in recent weeks gasoline prices had unwound a significant portion of their steep increases. Nevertheless, there was a risk that the large cumulative rise in energy and petroleum product prices through the summer would be transmitted to core consumer prices. A number of firms had been reporting a greater ability to pass through increases in energy and other costs to customers, though evidently more so to other businesses than to consumers. A survey measure of the near-term inflation expectations of households had risen notably, but intermediate- and longer-term inflation expectations implied by Treasury security yields had remained fairly stable. It was noted, however, that longer-term expectations of inflation remained contained in the context of an increase in the extent of additional monetary policy tightening expected in financial markets.