Over the intermeeting period, U.S. financial markets were strongly influenced by developments regarding the fiscal situations in the United States and in Europe and by generally weaker-than-expected readings on economic activity. Throughout the period, waxing and waning concerns about the sovereign debt of peripheral euro-area countries appeared to have an effect on investor appetite for risk, leading to volatility in many asset markets. Late in the period, investor focus appeared to turn to the U.S. debt ceiling and the potential for delayed debt service payments by the Treasury Department, the possibility of a downgrade of U.S. sovereign debt, and the prospects for significant long-term fiscal consolidation. Liquidity and funding in money markets deteriorated in the last week of July, and interest rates on a number of short-term funding instruments increased markedly. The strains in these markets eased after legislation to raise the debt ceiling and to cut the federal budget deficit was signed into law on August 2. U.S. equity prices fell considerably in the last week of July and the first week of August, reportedly reflecting recent weaker-than-expected economic data releases, and they declined further after the August 5 announcement by Standard & Poor's of its downgrade of long-term U.S. sovereign debt.

The decisions by the FOMC at its June meeting to complete its asset purchase program and to maintain the 0 to 1/4 percent target range for the federal funds rate were about in line with market expectations and elicited little market reaction; the same was true of the accompanying statement and the subsequent press briefing by the Chairman. Over the intermeeting period, investors marked down the expected path for the federal funds rate substantially, reflecting incoming economic data that were weaker than expected and concomitant concerns about the prospects for global growth. Yields on nominal Treasury securities also fell notably, on net, over the intermeeting period. The Federal Reserve's Treasury purchase program was completed on schedule on June 30.

Broad U.S. stock price indexes fell sharply, on net, over the intermeeting period, as increased concerns about economic growth appeared to overshadow generally strong second-quarter corporate earnings reports. Option-implied volatility on the S&P 500 index jumped late in the period. Yields on both investment- and speculative-grade corporate bonds fell a little less than those on comparable-maturity Treasury securities, leaving risk spreads wider. Financial market indicators of inflation expectations were mixed over the intermeeting period.

Net debt financing by nonfinancial corporations was solid in July, although below the elevated pace posted in the second quarter. Gross bond issuance fell, and the outstanding amount of commercial and industrial (C&I) loans on banks' books was about flat. Nonfinancial commercial paper (CP) posted a sizable gain. The market for CP issued by financial firms experienced some strains late in the period as institutional money market mutual funds reportedly increased their cash positions and sought to decrease exposure to CP issued by some entities perceived to be less creditworthy. Issuance of syndicated leveraged loans remained strong in the second quarter. The pace of gross public equity issuance by nonfinancial firms fell somewhat in July from its solid pace in the second quarter. Most indicators of business credit quality continued to improve.

Commercial real estate markets remained weak. Available data for the second quarter indicated that commercial mortgage debt contracted, prices of commercial properties were generally depressed, and issuance of commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS) slowed. However, the delinquency rate in June for loans that back existing CMBS stayed below its recent peak, and vacancy rates for commercial properties, while still high, generally continued to edge lower.

Rates on conforming fixed-rate residential mortgages declined, on net, over the intermeeting period. Mortgage refinancing activity picked up but remained relatively subdued. Outstanding residential mortgage debt is estimated to have contracted further in the second quarter. Rates of serious mortgage delinquency continued to moderate but remained high, while the rate of new delinquencies on prime mortgages flattened out in recent months at an elevated level.

Conditions in consumer credit markets generally continued to improve. Total consumer credit expanded at a moderate rate in May as both nonrevolving and revolving credit posted gains. Issuance of consumer asset-backed securities remained solid in July, although some deals later in the month were reportedly postponed a few days while issuers awaited the outcome of the debt ceiling deliberations. Delinquency rates for most types of consumer loans moved down in recent months.

Core commercial bank loans--the sum of C&I, real estate, and consumer loans--were about flat over the months of June and July, as a slowdown in lending to businesses was offset by a pickup in loans to households. The July Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices showed that respondents again eased lending standards to some degree on all major loan types other than residential real estate loans. Nonetheless, banks also indicated that the current levels of their lending standards for all loan types were between moderate and relatively tight when compared with the range of standards that had prevailed since 2005. Nearly all second-quarter earnings reports from large banking companies exceeded expectations.

M2 expanded rapidly in June and July. Liquid deposits, the largest component of M2, increased robustly, likely reflecting safe-haven flows from riskier assets along with temporary increases in the amount of deposits that money market mutual funds held at their custodian banks. The rise in currency moderated over those two months but remained robust.

Headline equity indexes abroad and foreign benchmark sovereign yields declined over the intermeeting period in apparent response to signs of a slowdown in the pace of global economic activity and reduced demand for risky assets. At the same time, concerns about fiscal deficits and debt sustainability drove yields on the sovereign debt of Greece, Ireland, Portugal, Spain, and Italy to record highs relative to yields on German bunds, although later in the period, spreads fell back somewhat. Stock prices of European banks, which are significant investors in sovereign bonds issued by the peripheral euro-area countries, declined appreciably, and some of these banks reportedly faced tighter funding conditions toward the end of the intermeeting period. The broad nominal index of the U.S. dollar fluctuated over the period in response to changes in investors' assessment of the outlook for the U.S. economy, prospects for the lifting of the U.S. debt ceiling, and the situation in the European economies. On net over the intermeeting period, the dollar rose modestly after having depreciated earlier this year.

The European Central Bank (ECB) boosted its policy rate in July, a move that was widely anticipated. As indicated by money market futures quotes, however, the expected pace of monetary policy tightening declined substantially for the ECB as well as for other central banks in advanced foreign economies. Following its August meeting, the ECB expanded and extended its offerings of term liquidity and resumed purchases of sovereign debt in the secondary market. Central banks in several emerging market economies, including China, continued to tighten policy in response to inflationary pressures. Authorities in some emerging market economies also took measures to limit capital inflows and credit growth.