The information reviewed at the August 9 meeting indicated that the pace of the economic recovery remained slow in recent months and that labor market conditions continued to be weak. In addition, revised data for 2008 through 2010 from the Bureau of Economic Analysis indicated that the recent recession was deeper than previously thought and that the level of real gross domestic product (GDP) had not yet attained its pre-recession peak by the second quarter of 2011. Moreover, the downward revision to first-quarter GDP growth and the slow growth reported for the second quarter indicated that the recovery was quite sluggish in the first half of this year. Overall consumer price inflation moderated in recent months, and survey measures of long-run inflation expectations remained stable.

Private nonfarm employment rose at a considerably slower pace in June and July than earlier in the year, and employment in state and local governments continued to trend lower. The unemployment rate edged up, on net, since the beginning of the year, and long-duration unemployment remained very high. Meanwhile, the labor force participation rate moved down further through July. Initial claims for unemployment insurance stepped down some in recent weeks but remained elevated, and indicators of hiring showed no improvement.

Manufacturing production was unchanged in June. Supply chain disruptions associated with the earthquake in Japan continued to hinder production at motor vehicle manufacturers and the firms that supply them. Excluding motor vehicles and parts, factory output posted only a modest increase. The manufacturing capacity utilization rate held about flat in recent months. With auto manufacturers expecting supply chain disruptions to ease, motor vehicle assembly schedules called for a substantial step-up in production in the third quarter, and initial estimates of production in June were consistent with such a step-up. But broader indicators of near-term manufacturing activity, such as the diffusion indexes of new orders from the national and regional manufacturing surveys, softened to levels consistent with only small gains in production in the coming months.

Real consumer spending was nearly unchanged in the second quarter. Motor vehicle purchases declined during the spring when the availability of some models was limited, but rebounded somewhat in July as supplies improved. Consumer spending on goods and services other than motor vehicles also appeared soft through June. Labor earnings rose in the second quarter, but increases in consumer prices offset much of the gain in nominal income. Consumer sentiment weakened markedly in July, and the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan sentiment index fell to levels last seen in early 2009.

The housing market remained depressed. Although single-family housing starts moved up some in June, permit issuance stayed low. Similarly, sales of new and existing single-family homes were subdued in recent months, and home prices continued to trend lower. New construction remained constrained by the overhang of foreclosed or distressed properties as well as by weak demand in an environment of uncertainty about future home prices and tight underwriting standards for mortgage loans.

Real business spending on equipment and software rose at a modest pace in the second quarter, reflecting strong increases in outlays for high-tech equipment that more than offset declines in spending in many other equipment categories. Nominal new orders for nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft continued to rise through June, and orders remained well above shipments, suggesting further gains in outlays for equipment and software in the near term. However, indicators of business conditions and sentiment weakened in June and July. Business investment in nonresidential structures appeared to have stabilized at a low level in recent months, with vacancy rates elevated and construction financing conditions still tight. Outlays for drilling and mining equipment continued to increase. In the second quarter, businesses appeared to add to inventories at a moderate rate, as a drawdown in motor vehicle inventories associated with production disruptions was offset by higher accumulation elsewhere. In most industries outside of the motor vehicle sector, inventories seemed to be reasonably well aligned with sales.

Real federal purchases turned up in the second quarter, as defense expenditures rebounded after declining noticeably in the preceding quarter. At the state and local level, real purchases continued to decline in response to budgetary pressures; these governments continued to reduce payrolls, and their real construction outlays fell sharply.

The U.S. international trade deficit widened significantly in May in nominal terms, as exports edged down and imports moved up strongly. Declines in exports were concentrated in commodity-intensive categories such as industrial supplies and agricultural goods; sales of capital goods and automotive products increased. The rise in imports importantly reflected increases in spending on petroleum products (mainly the result of higher prices rather than increased volumes) and on capital goods, especially computers. For the second quarter as a whole, the advance release of the National Income and Product Accounts (NIPA) indicated that real exports of goods and services increased more than real imports, with the result that net exports added significantly to real GDP growth.

After decelerating in the preceding two months, indexes of U.S. consumer prices declined in June, reflecting a substantial drop in consumer energy prices. However, survey data indicated some backup in gasoline prices in July. The price index for personal consumption expenditures (PCE) excluding food and energy posted a small increase in June, and the PCE price index for non-energy services was essentially unchanged. In contrast, prices of nonfood, non-energy goods were apparently boosted by upward pressure from earlier increases in commodity and import prices, and motor vehicle prices rose further, reflecting the extremely low levels of vehicle inventories. Near-term expected inflation from the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers moved down again in July from its elevated level in the spring, and longer-term inflation expectations remained stable.

Nominal hourly labor compensation, as measured both by compensation per hour in the nonfarm business sector and by the employment cost index, increased at a moderate rate over the year ending in the second quarter. Similarly, the 12-month change in average hourly earnings of all employees remained moderate in July. Productivity in the nonfarm business sector rose only slightly over the past four-quarter period, so unit labor costs posted a modest increase.

Foreign economic growth appeared to have slowed significantly in recent months. Real GDP growth declined sharply in the United Kingdom in the second quarter, and industrial production data and purchasing managers surveys pointed to a similar slowdown in Canada. Retail sales and business sentiment for the euro area also weakened in recent months amid intensified concerns over the fiscal situation of the peripheral euro-area countries. Economic performance in the emerging market economies was somewhat better, but indicators for those economies also suggested some cooling from the very rapid growth earlier this year. By contrast, the Japanese economy has begun to recover from the March disaster, with exports and production both retracing much of their substantial losses. Foreign inflation dipped in the second quarter as the effects of previous increases in food and energy prices began to dissipate.