At its meeting on May 15, 2001, the Committee adopted a directive that called for maintaining conditions in reserve markets consistent with a decrease of 50 basis points in the intended level of the federal funds rate, to about 4 percent. The members generally agreed that this action was necessary in light of the continuing weakness of the economic expansion and the lack of evidence that output growth had stabilized or was about to rebound, coupled with a climate of fragile business and consumer confidence. In addition, the members believed that the balance of risks remained weighted toward conditions that could generate economic weakness in the foreseeable future.

Federal funds traded at rates near the Committee's target level over the intermeeting period. Other short-term market rates declined somewhat following the Committee's announcement of the easing action and subsequently moved down noticeably further in response to weaker-than-expected news on economic activity and corporate earnings. Yields on long-term Treasury and investment-grade corporate securities fell appreciably during the intermeeting interval, but rates on speculative-grade bonds rose sharply in response to the adverse earnings news. The pessimistic earnings reports also weighed on equity prices, which edged lower on balance.

In foreign exchange markets, the trade-weighted value of the dollar in terms of many of the major foreign currencies increased slightly over the intermeeting interval, as the dollar's appreciation against euro and other European currencies more than offset the U.S. dollar's further decline against the Canadian dollar. European currencies weakened in response to disappointing data on economic activity, with inflation concerns seen as constraining countervailing monetary easing actions. The dollar also was up slightly on net in terms of an index of the currencies of other important trading partners. The real was adversely affected by Brazil's internal problems and spillovers from Argentina's financial difficulties, while the Mexican peso benefited from continued foreign interest in Mexican investments and from high oil prices.

The broad monetary aggregates continued to grow rapidly in the second quarter, reflecting the effects of lower opportunity costs of holding liquid deposits and money market mutual funds, a buildup in deposits associated with extensive mortgage financing activity, and a flight to liquidity and safety from volatile equity markets. The debt of domestic nonfinancial sectors expanded at a moderate pace on balance through May.