In the Committee's discussion of current and prospective economic developments, members noted that by some measures overall economic activity remained at a reasonably high level. However, recent data indicated that growth of spending and output was quite sluggish and below the pace many members had anticipated at the time of the previous meeting. Weakness in business spending for equipment and software, efforts to reduce excess inventories, and the ongoing adaptation to lower equity prices in the United States and around the world were likely to hold back economic activity in the short run. Nonetheless, the members continued to anticipate a strengthening as the year progressed and during 2002, fostered to a large extent by the lagged effects on spending of the substantial easing in monetary policy since early this year, the stimulus from recently enacted tax cuts, and the positive effects on household and business purchasing power of some recent reductions in energy prices. In addition, the abatement and eventual turnaround of the downward adjustments to capital spending and inventories would add impetus to economic growth going forward. It was noted, however, that the unique characteristics of the current cyclical experience, including the heavy concentration of weakness in business expenditures and manufacturing output, increased the uncertainty that surrounded any forecast. Most of the members believed that the risks to the expansion, notably for the nearer term, remained to the downside of current forecasts. Potential sources of shortfalls included the effects of possible further increases in unemployment on consumer and business confidence; the risks of disappointing business earnings that could damp investment and, through lower equity prices, consumption; and the growing indications of weakness in foreign economies that could limit demand for exports. In an environment of diminished pressures in product and labor markets and of lower energy costs, members commented that price pressures were likely to remain contained, at least over the near to intermediate term.

In preparation for the mid-year monetary policy report to Congress, the members of the Board of Governors and the presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks provided individual projections of the growth of GDP, the rate of unemployment, and the rate of inflation for the years 2001 and 2002. The forecasts of the rate of expansion in real GDP had central tendencies of 1-1/4 to 2 percent for 2001, suggesting at least a little acceleration in the second half of the year, and 3 to 3-1/4 percent for 2002. The civilian rates of unemployment associated with these forecasts had central tendencies of 4-3/4 to 5 percent in the fourth quarter of 2001 and 4-3/4 to 5-1/4 percent in the fourth quarter of 2002. Forecasts of the rate of inflation, as measured by the chain price index for personal consumption expenditures, were centered on a range of 2 to 2-1/2 percent for this year and 1-3/4 to 2-1/2 percent in 2002.

Continuing softness in the expansion of economic activity was mirrored in anecdotal reports of business conditions in much of the nation. Typical regional reports referred to slowing increases in economic activity from an already reduced pace or to the persistence of sluggish business activity and generally downbeat business sentiment. Manufacturing continued to display particular weakness. However, actions to reduce excess inventories or to address problems relating to overcapacity in some sectors of the economy, including telecommunications and other high-tech industries, were under way and were likely to exert a decreasing drag on economic activity over coming quarters as corrective adjustments were completed. Financial conditions, while generally supportive of greater spending, presented a mixed picture in some respects. Short- and intermediate-term interest rates had fallen substantially this year, and long-term yields had moved down late last year. But equity prices were only holding their own after a substantial decline earlier and the dollar had appreciated. Though lenders were cautious about marginally creditworthy firms, most businesses were finding ample credit available at attractive terms.

In their comments about developments in key sectors of the economy, members noted that overall business activity had been supported, at least to this point, by the relative strength of household demand. Growth in consumer spending for goods and services, while moderating appreciably since earlier in the year, had nonetheless held up unexpectedly well given the adverse wealth effects associated with the declines in stock market prices, relatively high levels of consumer indebtedness, and job losses in a growing number of industries. Members referred in particular to the persisting strength in demand for light motor vehicles, which evidently was boosted by continuing sales incentives and attractive financing terms. Looking ahead, the outlook for consumer spending was subject to a number of downside risks that included the possibility of rising unemployment and further weakness in the stock market, which could damp consumer confidence as well as income and wealth. However, some further growth in consumer spending remained the most likely prospect for the balance of the year in light of the impetus provided by monetary and fiscal policy and the apparent stabilization in consumer sentiment in recent months after its earlier decline.

Housing activity remained at a high level as attractive mortgage interest rates evidently continued to counterbalance the negative effects on consumer attitudes of somewhat weaker labor markets and reduced stock market wealth. While housing activity in a number of areas continued to be described as fairly robust, members noted that residential sales and construction had slipped in some parts of the nation. Even so, given existing backlogs and the continued availability of attractive mortgage rates, nationwide housing construction was expected to remain near its currently elevated level.

The near-term outlook for business fixed investment seemed less promising. The weakness in spending for new equipment and software had played a key role in the softening of the overall expansion of economic activity in recent quarters, and a material pickup in such expenditures did not appear likely until the latter part of this year or early next year. Indeed, anecdotal reports from many business firms indicated that they were delaying at least some equipment and software outlays until evidence of an upturn in their sales and earnings began to accumulate. Caution was especially pronounced among high-tech firms, many of which had experienced major cutbacks in the demand for their products and services. An analysis prepared for this meeting suggested that in the aggregate the apparent overhang of excess capital might not be large, but the dimensions and duration of the adjustment in spending on capital goods were a major source of uncertainty in the outlook, and there was some risk of substantially greater weakness in investment spending than was forecast for coming months. Beyond the nearer term, however, the prospects for an upturn in investment outlays seemed favorable in the context of profit opportunities associated with expectations of continued elevated rates of technological progress and rapid declines in the prices of new equipment. In this regard the members reviewed several staff reports that generally concluded that the growth of productivity in the years ahead was highly likely to remain appreciably stronger than it had been from the mid-1970s to the mid-1990s, though how much stronger was an open question. With regard to the outlook for nonresidential construction activity, members referred to signs of developing weakness in some commercial real estate markets, but there were few reports of overbuilding and the construction of commercial facilities was being well maintained in other parts of the country. On balance, further modest growth in nonresidential construction, though well below the average pace in recent quarters, was seen as a likely prospect.

Business efforts to bring their inventories into better alignment with sales were a key factor in the deceleration of overall economic activity in recent quarters and in forecasts that the upturn in economic activity would be relatively limited over the balance of the year. Net inventory liquidation appeared to have diminished in the current quarter from its pace earlier in the year, but inventory-sales ratios had risen further in recent months, especially for high-tech equipment. Accordingly, liquidation was not likely to abate substantially further for some time.

With regard to the foreign sector of the economy, members commented that economic activity had softened more than anticipated in many nations that were important trading partners, with clearly negative implications for U.S. exports. Major Latin American countries were experiencing particularly severe economic difficulties, but growth was slowing or economic activity declining in many industrial countries as well. At the same time, a number of important U.S. industries were subject to increased domestic competition from foreign imports. While growth abroad could be expected to rebound next year, responding in part to faster expansion in the U. S. economy, the nearer-term outlook for U.S. and indeed world trade was less favorable.

In their review of the outlook for inflation, members generally anticipated that increases in consumer prices would remain relatively subdued over the next several quarters. Factors underlying that assessment included the emergence of less taut conditions in labor markets, relatively low capacity utilization rates in manufacturing, and the persistence of highly competitive conditions in most product markets that made it very difficult for business firms to preserve or increase their profit margins by raising prices. Moreover, energy prices recently had declined appreciably, and the earlier inflationary effects of energy price increases on a broad range of costs and prices appeared to have begun to subside as a result. Inflation expectations that currently appeared by various measures and survey results to be essentially flat or even to have declined a bit were reinforcing the factors holding down price increases. Some negatives in the inflation outlook also were noted, such as some increase in labor compensation including rapid advances in health care costs, and a consequent squeeze on profit margins that was exacerbated by a cyclical decline in productivity gains. Labor pressures on business costs might persist for a time in lagged response to earlier advances in headline consumer price inflation and labor productivity, but their effects would tend to diminish or to be offset over time if, in line with the members' forecasts, pressures on labor resources continued to ease. Some members expressed concern about the longer-run prospects for wages and prices if the stimulative stance of monetary policy was maintained too long and allowed demand pressures to outrun the economy's potential.

In the Committee's discussion of policy for the intermeeting period ahead, all but one of the members supported both some further easing of reserve conditions consistent with a 25 basis point reduction in the target federal funds rate and the retention of the Committee's public statement that the risks were weighted toward excessively soft economic performance. The information received since the May meeting suggested a somewhat weaker economic performance than most had anticipated, and the members were persuaded that in the absence of firm evidence that the deceleration in the economic expansion had run its course a further easing action was needed at this point to help stabilize the economy. With greater slack in labor and product markets, and with inflation expectations contained, an added easing ran very little risk of exacerbating price pressures, provided the Committee was prepared to firm the stance of policy promptly if and when demand pressures threatened to intensify. One member was persuaded that policy had already become so expansionary that further easing ran an unacceptable risk of exacerbating inflation over time.

A smaller easing move than those the Committee had been making earlier this year was deemed desirable by the members in light of the substantial easing that already had been implemented since the start of this year. By a number of measures--including the level of real federal funds rates, the robust growth of the monetary aggregates, and the ready availability of finance to most borrowers--policy had become stimulative. Such a policy stance was appropriate for a time to counter the various forces holding back economic expansion. But much of the lagged effects of the Committee's earlier easing actions had not yet been felt in the economy, and they would be supplemented in coming quarters by the implementation of the recently legislated tax cut stimulus. In these circumstances, a smaller move than those undertaken earlier this year would have the advantage of reducing the odds on adding to inflation pressures later and of underlining the Committee's assessment of its policy stance. In the view of a number of members, the Committee might well be near the end of its easing cycle. At the same time, several emphasized that they did not want to rule out further easing later if warranted by the tenor of incoming economic information.

All except one of the members accepted a proposal to retain the Committee's press statement that the risks would continue to be weighted toward economic weakness after today's easing move. The member who opposed additional policy easing expressed strong reservations about such a statement because in his view it likely would be interpreted as an intention to ease policy further, which was contrary to his own assessment that a more neutral outlook regarding the future course of policy was desirable. In the view of most members, however, the weakness of the recent information relating to the performance of the economy was consistent with unbalanced risks at least insofar as it pertained to the outlook for the rest of this year, and their primary policy concern at this point remained the strength of economic activity rather than potentially worsening inflation over the longer term.