The information reviewed at this meeting suggested that economic activity continued to grow little, if at all, in the second quarter. Employment fell somewhat over the first two months of the quarter, industrial output dropped sharply, and the limited available information suggested that both probably continued to decline in June. Expansion in consumer spending appeared to have slowed and business purchases of equipment and software had fallen appreciably, though homebuilding had been well maintained. Energy prices had been relatively flat recently, at a high level, and core price inflation had moderated a little.

Private nonfarm payroll employment fell slightly further in May after a sharp drop in April and lackluster growth in the first quarter. Manufacturing recorded additional widespread job losses in May, and there were signs that weakness in employment was spreading to related sectors, notably wholesale trade and help-supply services. By contrast, construction employment rebounded in May, retracing part of its large April loss, and hiring in finance, insurance, and real estate remained brisk. The unemployment rate edged lower in May, to 4.4 percent, but initial unemployment insurance claims and other data suggested persisting softening in the labor market in that month.

The rapid contraction in industrial production continued unabated in May, with manufacturing output registering an eighth consecutive monthly drop. Moreover, output from electric utility plants fell, and mining activity slowed further in May following a strong first-quarter gain. Within manufacturing, decreases in output were widely spread across sectors, and the production of high-tech equipment continued to plummet. The motor vehicle industry was one of the few sectors to record a rise in production. The further contraction in production in May brought the rate of utilization of manufacturing capacity to its lowest level since 1983.

Growth of consumer spending seemed to have slowed in the second quarter, reflecting the deceleration in personal income, the rise in unemployment, and the earlier decline in household net worth. Nominal retail sales were up only slightly in May after a brisk rise in April, and the average rate of increase over the two months was somewhat slower than that of the first quarter.

Low mortgage rates continued to provide support to residential building activity in April and May despite a weakening labor market and sluggish growth in personal income. Total housing starts in April-May remained at the high first-quarter level, as stronger single-family starts offset a slower pace of multifamily starts. Sales of new and existing homes slipped in April (latest data) after both reached near-record levels in March.

Business spending on equipment and software declined further early in the second quarter in response to sluggish sales, an erosion of earnings and corporate cash flows, and an uncertain outlook for future sales and earnings. Shipments of nondefense capital goods slumped in April, and the weakness in incoming orders suggested that shipments would fall further in coming months. Fleet sales of cars and trucks, which had been among the few areas of strength in business equipment expenditures in the first quarter, also slowed. By contrast, nonresidential construction remained robust, though the level of activity slipped a little in April and slightly higher vacancy rates and smaller increases in rents suggested that the profitability of new nonresidential investment might be lessening. Strength was particularly evident in outlays for industrial structures, partly reflecting construction of electric power plants and facilities for cogeneration of power by industrial companies, and in continuing strong oil and gas exploration activity.

Business inventories on a book-value basis edged higher in April after a sizable runoff in the first quarter. Excluding motor vehicles, manufacturing stocks were little changed in April, but shipments were down sharply and the aggregate inventory-shipments ratio for the sector remained on a steep upward trend, with many industries facing sizable inventory overhangs. In the wholesale sector, inventories rose in step with sales; the sector's inventory-sales ratio was unchanged in April and remained at the top of its range for the past twelve months. Retail inventories continued to decline in April, and the sector's inventory-sales ratio decreased further and was near the middle of its range for the past twelve months.

The U.S. trade deficit in goods and services continued to shrink in April. The value of exports fell, with most of the drop occurring in capital goods, notably computers and semiconductors. The value of imports also decreased but by slightly more than exports, reflecting sizable declines in capital and consumer goods that were partly offset by increases in oil and automotive products. Recent information indicated that economic growth in the euro area and the United Kingdom in the first quarter was at about the reduced pace seen in the fourth quarter, and growth likely stayed relatively slow more recently. Expansion in Canada appeared to have weakened recently after a slight pickup in the first quarter. In Japan, the contraction in economic activity that began early in the year appeared to have continued into the second quarter. Most of the developing countries, with the notable exception of China, also were experiencing an economic slowdown that was related at least in part to weaker external demand.

Core price inflation had moderated a little recently after a pickup earlier in the year. The core consumer price index (CPI) rose relatively slowly in April and May, and the increase in that index during the past twelve months was about the same as that during the previous twelve-month period. The core personal consumption expenditure (PCE) chain-type price index presented a similar picture, with inflation in April and May a little lower than earlier in the year and no change in inflation on a year-over-year basis. Core producer price inflation for finished goods also was subdued in the April-May period but edged higher on a year-over-year basis. There also were indications that upward pressures on energy prices had abated somewhat. In particular, the return of some domestic refineries to operation after maintenance or breakdowns and a surge in imports had replenished gasoline stocks, and as a result wholesale and retail gasoline prices had retreated recently. With regard to labor costs, average hourly earnings of production or nonsupervisory workers continued to rise in April and May at the relatively brisk rate that had prevailed over the past year.