Partly in response to the receipt of weaker-than-expected data for spending and output in the first quarter, the staff marked down somewhat its forecast of economic growth for 2005 and 2006. Even so, the economy was seen as retaining considerable momentum, and growth was expected to pick up some after the first quarter, paced by business spending on equipment and software. Consumption expenditures were seen as likely to expand at a moderate rate and residential investment to slow. With exports forecast to expand a bit more rapidly than imports, the arithmetic net drag on the economy from trade was expected to lessen. Fiscal policy was expected to provide a more moderate impetus to growth this year and next, following the substantial boost estimated for earlier years. Although economic growth was projected to run a bit above the staff's estimate of the economy's potential, the unemployment rate was projected to hold around its current level with improvements in job prospects expected to lure more workers back into the labor force. Inflation was projected to edge lower over the rest of the year and into 2006, reflecting the attenuation of the impact of higher energy prices and the effects of a slowed rate of growth of import prices and remaining slack in resource markets.

In their discussion of current conditions and the economic outlook, meeting participants observed that incoming data over the intermeeting period hinted at possible upside risks for inflation and downside risks for economic growth. Earlier increases in energy prices seemed to be an important factor contributing to an uptick in core inflation and a slower pace of economic activity. With energy prices leveling out more recently, however, and the behavior of compensation suggesting a lack of pressure in labor markets, underlying inflation appeared to remain contained. The weakness in spending was widespread and could not be completely dismissed, but it had appeared only very recently and could be a product of the inherent noisiness of high-frequency economic data. On balance, economic fundamentals including low interest rates, robust underlying productivity growth, and strengthened business balance sheets were expected to support economic growth at a pace sufficient to gradually eliminate remaining slack in resource utilization. Although the economic outlook generally seemed favorable, there was also broad recognition of greater uncertainty attending the outlook for both inflation and output growth.

Capital expenditures advanced briskly over the first quarter, but at a pace significantly below that registered over the latter half of last year. To some extent, businesses probably had pulled capital outlays forward from this year into 2004 to benefit from the partial-expensing tax provision that expired at year-end, but the unexpected weakness in capital goods orders for February and March seemed hard to attribute to this factor alone. In addition, the prolonged period of elevated spot energy prices, the sense supported by futures markets that these higher prices may persist for some time, and the heightened uncertainty about energy prices going forward, together may have left businesses less confident about the future and wary of longer-term commitments such as expanding plant capacity or taking on new workers. A less buoyant and less certain economic outlook seemed apparent in financial markets as well, where equity prices had fallen and risk spreads had widened. On balance, though, these financial developments did not appear to signal the onset of a sharp retrenchment in investors' willingness to bear risk, and capital expenditures were seen as likely to remain quite robust, spurred by strong economic fundamentals that included elevated profits, opportunities to raise efficiency by utilizing new technologies, a low cost of capital, and strong corporate balance sheets. Indeed, a substantial weakening in business investment in an environment with such favorable fundamentals would be at odds with the historical record.

Incoming data for the household sector were viewed as mixed. Higher gasoline prices seemed to be sapping consumer confidence and consumer spending. The pace of consumption growth had fallen off appreciably toward the end of the first quarter, and some participants worried about the potential for continued sluggishness in consumer spending if increasingly cautious households sought to raise their saving rate rapidly. On balance, though, strong income growth and low interest rates augured well for household spending. Although housing starts had dropped of late, home sales and other indicators of activity in the residential real estate market remained at very high levels. House price appreciation was expected to moderate over coming quarters, but a number of local real estate markets were still regarded as "hot," with signs of possible speculative excesses in some areas.

The deceleration in final sales over the first quarter had been accompanied by a sizable accumulation of businesses inventories. The available data suggested that stocks had accumulated in a variety of industries, but particularly in the motor vehicle sector where the inventory of new autos had moved appreciably higher. Although difficult to judge, the inventory buildup was not regarded as likely to have major implications for aggregate manufacturing beyond some modest production cutbacks in the current quarter.

A relatively high proportion of demand had continued to be met by imports. Some concern was expressed that incoming data suggested weaker growth in some of our major trading partners, which posed a downside risk to forecasts for U.S. exports. Moreover, advances in domestic income were expected to contribute to brisk growth in imports. Looking ahead, the U.S. economy was expected to continue to run quite substantial current account deficits, although the impact of past dollar depreciation should work to boost exports and slow the rise in imports to some extent.