The information received at this meeting suggested that the growth of economic activity had unexpectedly moderated during the first quarter from the rapid pace seen during the second half of 2004. Gains in private payroll employment over the first quarter were similar to the average for the second half of 2004 but weakened in March, and manufacturing production rose only a little, on balance, over February and March. Consumers appeared to have turned somewhat cautious in their spending, likely a reflection of higher energy prices. Housing starts fell in March after a sustained stretch of very high readings, but home sales continued at a rapid rate throughout the quarter. Growth of capital spending, while strong in the first quarter, was down from the brisk rates of previous quarters. Sharp increases in energy prices pushed up headline inflation, and core measures were also somewhat elevated. Labor costs, however, advanced at a moderate rate. Employment continued to expand in March, although the increase was less than the strong advance in February. Employment declined in manufacturing, retail trade, and temporary help services, but most other sectors registered gains. The average workweek remained at its recent level, and aggregate hours posted a small gain. The unemployment rate moved down to 5.2 percent in March. Also suggesting a gradual erosion of slack in labor markets were surveys indicating that some employers were finding some jobs requiring special skills harder to fill and that households were experiencing increases in job availability. Nevertheless, survey measures of expected conditions in labor markets softened somewhat in the early months of the year, and the labor market participation rate remained low in March.

Industrial production continued to expand in the first quarter, but the pace was slower than in the final months of 2004. Gains were restrained by a decline in manufacturing output, particularly for motor vehicles and parts, and by a reduction in energy generation at utilities, which was held down by unseasonably warm weather early in the year. Mining output, however, accelerated, as did production in the business equipment and defense and space equipment industries. Capacity utilization in manufacturing edged up on average in the first quarter, but moved down in March and remained a bit below its thirty-year average.

Consumer spending advanced solidly in the first quarter despite some slowing in automobile sales. However, much of that strength was registered early in the quarter, and spending in March was subdued. Measures of consumer confidence declined in the early months of the year but remained well above the lows of two years ago. Other factors underlying consumer spending also remained favorable: Real wages and salaries continued to rise, and the ratio of wealth to income remained high, although it was down a bit because of a decline in equity prices. The personal saving rate stayed low over the first quarter of the year.

Housing starts slowed in March, after exceptional strength in the prior two months. However, a substantial increase in the level of permits in March suggested that starts likely turned back up in April. A similar pattern was observed in the multifamily sector. The thirty-year mortgage rate in the first quarter stayed in a range around its average level for the past two years. Sales of existing homes were rapid throughout the quarter, and sales of new homes rose to another record level in March. House prices continued to rise rapidly over the first quarter, although recent data suggested some slowing.

Growth of business spending on equipment and software moderated substantially in the first quarter from the very high rates of last year, but appeared to retain considerable momentum; strong gains occurred in all major categories except motor vehicles. This performance reflected favorable underlying fundamentals, including solid growth in business output, strong retained earnings, high levels of liquid assets, and favorable borrowing conditions in the form of low interest rates and narrow risk spreads in bond and loan markets. At the same time, construction of nonresidential structures remained quite subdued. Over the first quarter, outlays for manufacturing facilities picked up a bit, but those for office buildings stayed low despite some declines in the office vacancy rate, and spending on commercial structures fell.

Nonfarm inventories accumulated in the first two months of the year at a much faster rate than in the preceding quarter, prompting a small increase in inventory-sales ratios. Inventory gains were especially strong early in the quarter and were concentrated in the manufacturing sector.

The U.S. international trade deficit widened in February as exports held steady. The value of imported oil jumped sharply, and nonoil imports also rose. Economic indicators for major foreign industrial countries suggested some slowing of growth late in the quarter after a pickup earlier in the year. In Japan, industrial production rose briskly in January before falling back; the euro-area industrial sector evidenced a similar pattern. By contrast, economic activity in China and other developing countries showed greater buoyancy. Consumer price inflation abroad remained subdued.

U.S. consumer price inflation firmed in recent months as energy prices rose sharply. Core consumer prices also rose a bit more rapidly recently, but the increase over the twelve months ending in March was little different than over the year-earlier period. According to survey information, expectations of near-term inflation picked up in March, consistent with the increase in energy prices. As for labor costs, the employment cost index for private industry decelerated over the first quarter from an already moderate pace. The slowing occurred in both the wages and salaries component and the benefits component and was fairly widespread across industry groups.

At its March meeting, the Federal Open Market Committee decided to increase the target level of the federal funds rate 25 basis points, to 2-3/4 percent. In its accompanying statement, the Committee expressed its perception that, with appropriate monetary policy action, the upside and downside risks to the attainment of both sustainable growth and price stability should be kept roughly equal. The Committee also noted that economic output continued to grow at a solid pace despite the rise in energy prices and that labor market conditions continued to improve gradually. While pressures on inflation had picked up in recent months and pricing power was more evident, longer-term inflation expectations remained well contained. In these circumstances, the Committee believed that policy accommodation could be removed at a pace that would likely be measured but noted that it would respond to changes in economic prospects as needed to fulfill its obligation to maintain price stability.