Over the intermeeting period, the market-implied expected path of the federal funds rate and nominal Treasury yields moved higher as stronger-than-expected economic data reinforced expectations that economic activity would remain resilient. The market-implied path of the policy rate over the latter half of this year increased during the intermeeting period, and related measures of uncertainty about the path of policy rose, partly reflecting a higher term premium. The rise in nominal Treasury yields, most notable at shorter maturities, reflected higher real rates. Short-term market-based measures of inflation compensation declined significantly but stayed at a slightly elevated level. Market-based measures of longer-term inflation compensation and survey-based measures of inflation expectations remained well anchored.

Broad equity price indexes increased notably, boosted by robust corporate earnings and further investor optimism surrounding AI implications for corporate profitability, despite the headwind of higher yields. Consistent with improved risk sentiment, the VIX—a forward-looking measure of near-term equity market volatility—declined slightly to below the median of its historical distribution, while corporate bond spreads narrowed somewhat.

Foreign financial market movements were largely driven by news of the increased prospects for a reopening of the Strait of Hormuz and then the announcement near the end of the intermeeting period that an agreement had been reached. Market-based policy expectations and near-term inflation compensation measures declined in most major AFEs. Nonetheless, market pricing still indicated at least one additional policy rate hike both in the euro area and in the U.K. over the remainder of this year. The broad dollar index rose as differentials between short-term interest rates in the U.S. and the AFEs widened. Strong corporate earnings and continued investor optimism related to AI contributed to increases in foreign equity prices.

Conditions in U.S. short-term funding markets remained stable. Aggregate bank reserves moved up following the previous period's tax receipt–driven decline. Money market rates ended the period slightly lower, on net, amid continued low bill supply.

Financing conditions in domestic credit markets remained generally accommodative for larger businesses and municipalities but somewhat restrictive for many small businesses and households. Borrowing costs continued to be elevated, and interest rates increased somewhat over the intermeeting period in some sectors, primarily reflecting increases in Treasury yields.

Credit continued to be generally available to most businesses, households, and municipalities. Bank lending continued to expand, and issuance of corporate bonds remained solid, partly driven by the financing needs of AI-related investments. Issuance in the leveraged loan market had picked up to a robust pace, while signals pointed to a continued slowdown in the private credit market. By contrast, credit conditions remained somewhat tight for small businesses and household borrowers with lower credit scores. Issuance of municipal bonds remained strong.