The information available at the time of the meeting indicated that inflation remained elevated and had moved higher, partly reflecting the effects of energy and other supply shocks. Labor market conditions remained stable, and real gross domestic product (GDP) continued to expand at a solid pace.

Total consumer price inflation—as measured by the 12-month change in the price index for personal consumption expenditures (PCE)—was 3.8 percent in April. Core PCE price inflation, which excludes changes in consumer energy prices and many consumer food prices, was 3.3 percent. Both total and core inflation were higher than their levels a year earlier, a development that the staff attributed to a variety of factors, including the pass-through of past tariff increases, higher energy and input costs stemming from the conflict in the Middle East, and the surge in demand related to the AI buildout. Core goods price inflation had risen relative to a year earlier, which the staff judged as largely reflecting the effects of tariffs and AI-related price pressures. Core services price inflation had been relatively stable over that period, as a gradual decline in the housing services component was about offset by a modest step-up in the core nonhousing services component. Based on data from the consumer and producer price indexes, the staff estimated that total PCE price inflation rose to 4.1 percent in May, boosted by an increase in consumer energy prices, and core PCE price inflation was estimated to be 3.4 percent.

The unemployment rate was 4.3 percent in May and had changed little, on balance, since the middle of the previous year. Nonfarm payroll employment rose at a solid pace in the three months through May. The 12-month change in the employment cost index for private-sector workers was 3.4 percent through March, the same as its year-earlier pace. Average hourly earnings increased 3.4 percent over the 12 months ending in May, 0.5 percentage point lower than a year earlier.

Available indicators suggested that real GDP growth continued at a solid pace in the second quarter. Real private domestic final purchases—which comprises PCE and private fixed investment and which often provides a better signal of underlying economic momentum than does real GDP—appeared to have picked up in the second quarter and was rising faster than GDP. Real consumer spending had been solid, and the AI buildout continued to boost real investment spending on data centers, high-tech equipment, and software. Data for April showed continued strength in both imports and exports of high-tech goods and a jump in energy exports.

Economic growth abroad stepped down in the first quarter of 2026, with weakness in Canada, the euro area, and Mexico. By contrast, output growth in several high-income Asian economies remained robust, as their exports of high-tech goods continued to surge, driven by the AI buildout. Recent indicators suggested that the conflict in the Middle East was weighing on foreign economic activity because of higher energy costs and weaker consumer and business confidence, particularly in lower-income Asian economies and in Europe.

Foreign headline inflation had increased significantly since the start of the conflict in the Middle East, with a sharp rise in retail energy and producer prices across Europe and much of Asia. Some central banks, including the European Central Bank, responded to higher inflation by raising their policy rates. More broadly, most foreign central banks emphasized the risks of higher inflation leading to second-round effects and the need to mitigate these risks, despite prospects of weaker output growth, and signaled either policy rate hikes or a slower pace of easing going forward.