In support of the Committee's dual-mandate goals, all members agreed to maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 3-1/2 to 3-3/4 percent and to reaffirm the FOMC's policy of maintaining ample reserves in the banking system. Members also agreed that the statement would not repeat the language that had suggested an easing bias regarding the likely direction of the Committee's future interest rate decisions. Members noted that there had been little change in the unemployment rate and solid growth in economic activity, but that inflation remained elevated relative to the Committee's 2 percent goal. Against this backdrop, members concurred that the postmeeting statement would convey the Committee's commitment to achieving its dual-mandate goals and emphasize that the Committee will deliver price stability.

At the conclusion of the discussion, the Committee voted to direct the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, until instructed otherwise, to execute transactions in the System Open Market Account (SOMA) in accordance with the following domestic policy directive, for release at 2:00 p.m.:

"Effective June 18, 2026, the Federal Open Market Committee directs the Desk to: Undertake open market operations as necessary to maintain the federal funds rate in a target range of 3-1/2 to 3-3/4 percent. Conduct standing overnight repurchase agreement operations at a rate of 3.75 percent. Conduct standing overnight reverse repurchase agreement operations at an offering rate of 3.5 percent and with a per-counterparty limit of $160 billion per day. When appropriate, increase the SOMA holdings of securities through purchases of Treasury bills and, if needed, other Treasury securities with remaining maturities of 3 years or less to maintain an ample level of reserves. Roll over at auction all principal payments from the Federal Reserve's holdings of Treasury securities. Reinvest all principal payments from the Federal Reserve's holdings of agency securities into Treasury bills."

The vote also encompassed approval of the statement below for release at 2:00 p.m.:

"The Federal Open Market Committee approved the following statement for release by a 12 – 0 vote: The Committee decided to maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 3-1/2 to 3-3/4 percent, in support of the Federal Reserve's dual mandate. The Committee reaffirmed its policy of maintaining ample reserves in the banking system. Economic activity is expanding at a solid pace despite elevated uncertainty that owes, in part, to the conflict in the Middle East. Productivity growth and capital investment are strong. Job gains have kept pace with the workforce, and the unemployment rate has changed little. Inflation remains elevated relative to the Committee's 2 percent goal, in part reflecting supply shocks that have driven price increases in certain sectors, including energy. The Committee will deliver price stability."