The manager turned first to an overview of market developments during the intermeeting period. Asset prices were affected by a number of factors, including developments related to the conflict in the Middle East, continued solid real economic data, higher inflation data, and ongoing investment in artificial intelligence (AI). Optimism around a near-term resolution of the conflict in the Middle East and the announcement of a memorandum of understanding between the U.S. and Iran pushed the oil futures curve and near-term inflation compensation materially lower relative to levels from the time of the April FOMC meeting. Expected policy rates, Treasury yields, the U.S. dollar, and domestic equity prices all rose.

Regarding monetary policy expectations, the manager observed that market participants and respondents to the Open Market Desk Survey of Market Expectations (Desk survey) generally expected no change in the target range of the federal funds rate at the June FOMC meeting. Market- and survey-based measures of expected policy rates moved higher over the intermeeting period. In the Desk survey, the median of the modal paths of the federal funds rate implied no changes in the target range through the beginning of 2027 and one rate cut in the second quarter of next year. Market pricing suggested that one rate hike was priced for mid-2027, but the manager noted that these measures were likely boosted, in part, by term premiums.

The manager then discussed inflation expectations. He noted that optimism around the Iran conflict pushed market-based measures of expected inflation significantly lower over the period, leaving near-term inflation expectations only moderately higher than they were before the onset of the conflict. Longer-term inflation expectations remained well anchored near the Committee's 2 percent longer-run inflation objective.

Turning to Treasury markets, the manager noted that the nominal 10-year Treasury yield had increased around 20 basis points since the April FOMC meeting and about 50 basis points since the start of the conflict in the Middle East. The manager commented that the ownership composition of Treasury securities has shifted somewhat over the past several years from relatively price-insensitive official-sector holders to more price-sensitive private investors, which could have implications for the term premium component of yields.

The manager next described developments in equity markets. The S&P 500 index increased by nearly 6 percent over the intermeeting period, led by the technology sector. Higher earnings expectations accounted for a large portion of the overall increase, particularly in the technology sector. Initial public offering activity in the U.S. appeared set to accelerate this year, with the proceeds expected to help fund ongoing investments in AI infrastructure.

In discussing credit markets, the manager noted that private credit markets continued to receive attention over the intermeeting period. Gross inflows to business development companies slowed notably in the second quarter, and available data suggested that net inflows were likely to become more negative amid an acceleration in investor redemption requests.

With regard to international developments, the manager noted that over the intermeeting period the increase in the two-year Treasury yield was larger than increases in sovereign yields of similar maturity in other advanced economies, as market-based expectations for the path of the domestic policy rate moved upward. The increases in two-year sovereign yields since the start of the conflict in the Middle East were now similar across many advanced foreign economies (AFEs). Consistent with the widening interest rate gap over the intermeeting period, the foreign exchange value of the U.S. dollar had modestly appreciated.

The manager observed that money market conditions were generally stable, although conditions softened notably early in the intermeeting period before they partially rebounded. In particular, repurchase agreement (repo) rates dropped to 15 basis points below the interest rate on reserve balances in mid-May. Consistent with that drop, the effective federal funds rate declined 2 basis points, the first such change since November. There was modest take-up of the Federal Reserve's overnight reverse repurchase agreement operations on days when repo rates were especially low, confirming that those operations were effective in firming the floor under money market rates. Regarding the decline in repo rates early in the period, the manager noted several likely driving factors: Reserves increased following the seasonal low around the April tax date as the Treasury General Account dropped, reserve management purchases added reserves and reduced the bill supply available to the public, U.S. global systemically important banks likely increased intermediation capacity in response to regulatory changes earlier in the year, the demand for repo financing on the part of levered investors declined, and seasonal increases in cash investments of government-sponsored enterprises coincided with the lowest rates seen over the intermeeting period. The manager noted that, these developments notwithstanding, the level of reserves in the system appeared to remain within a range consistent with an ample supply.

By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Desk's domestic transactions over the intermeeting period. There were no intervention operations in foreign currencies for the System's account during the intermeeting period.