So, I guess I shouldn't give you their best arguments.
I'll give you some others.
So you're right, I asked for a good family fig ht, and I got one .
That's the purpose, that's the design feature.
I come into this meeting, even this press conference, heartened b y what I've experienced the last two days.
Most of our discussion were on the bi g questions that matter to the conduct of monetary policy.
We -- we didn't sort of hide from them, we weren't scared of them.
There was a lot more interactio n between and among m y colleagues, i t was a real family fight.
My view, which you've l ong heard, i s that's the be tter way to get pol icy right.
That's our North Star.
So, there was a lot of agreement that I heard, that we have the powers, the tools, also the authority to deliver s table prices.
No walking back from our r esponsibilities.
There was a large majority support f or the decision that w e made in the room, but I a lso want to leave you, Claire, with one ot her impression.
There w as nothing inertial a bout that discussion.
I t was an active, robust discussion, about what's in the full range of what we can do, and might want to do, July 29, 2026 Chairman Warsh’s Press Conference PRELIMINARY in the period ahead.
Y ou characterized accurately, there was a disagreement about a decision today, I would say that doesn't sort of capture the full essence of the discussion.
The path to central bank heaven requires delivering on our remit.
These days that means delivering on price stability.
I wouldn't measure that path in 42 days, or any one particular meeting.
And I came out of that meeting even more confident that this is the right team to win the battle against high inflation.
Yeah, so I’m going to let t he -- I'll let the d issenters speak for themselves.
The w ay I he ard it ove r the last two days w as ove rwhelming agreement on objectives a nd authority, and commitment.
I di dn't hear anybody walking away from it.
The judgment a s to how be st to achieve t he price stability that was probably the que stion that w e were trying to answe r.
What's the best move?
What's the best strategy?
What's t he best way to achieve i t?
And a s econd question that w as asked is, w hen do we ne ed to make t hose ha rder July 29, 2026 Chairman Warsh’s Press Conference PRELIMINARY calls?
When do we need to make those decisions?
And like I said to one of your colleagues, I was comforted that markets in the intermeeting period weren't reacting to us, they weren't reacting to dots, or to speeches, they appeared more than ever to be reacting to real-time events.
So, they're gauging themselves how restrictive the Treasury curve should be.
And that I think has been a useful development.
We don't endorse any particular market move, but it also suggests we observe them with keen interest.