The information available at the time of the meeting indicated that U.S. economic activity had advanced solidly so far this year, but at a markedly slower pace than in the second half of 2023. Labor market conditions continued to ease: Job gains moderated, and the unemployment rate moved up further but remained low. Consumer price inflation was well below its year-earlier pace but remained somewhat elevated.

Consumer price inflation—as measured by the 12-month change in the price index for personal consumption expenditures (PCE)—was about the same in June as it was at the start of the year, though the month-over-month changes in May and June were smaller than those seen earlier in the year. Total PCE price inflation was 2.5 percent in June, and core PCE price inflation—which excludes changes in energy prices and many consumer food prices—was 2.6 percent.

Recent data suggested that labor market conditions had eased further. Average monthly nonfarm payroll gains in the second quarter were smaller than the average pace seen in the first quarter and over the previous year. The unemployment rate moved up further in June to 4.1 percent; the labor force participation rate ticked up as well, and the employment-to-population ratio was unchanged. The unemployment rate for African Americans rose in June, while the rate for Hispanics declined slightly; both rates were above that for Whites. The ratio of job vacancies to unemployment remained at 1.2 in June, about the same as its pre-pandemic level. Measures of nominal wages continued to decelerate: Average hourly earnings for all employees rose 3.9 percent over the 12 months ending in June, down 0.8 percentage point relative to a year earlier, and the 12-month change in the employment cost index of hourly compensation of private industry workers was 3.9 percent in June, down 0.6 percentage point from its year-earlier pace.

According to the advance release, real gross domestic product (GDP) rose solidly in the second quarter after a modest gain in the first quarter. Over the first half of the year, GDP growth was noticeably slower than its average pace in 2023. However, real private domestic final purchases (PDFP)—which comprises PCE and private fixed investment and which often provides a better signal than GDP of underlying economic momentum—posted a solid second-quarter increase that was in line with its first-quarter pace and only moderately slower than its average rate of increase in 2023.

As in the first quarter, net exports subtracted from U.S. GDP growth in the second quarter. Growth in real exports of goods and services remained tepid overall, as gains in exports of capital goods and consumer goods were partly offset by declines in exports of foods and industrial supplies. By contrast, real imports continued to rise at a brisk pace, driven by further increases in imports of capital goods.

Foreign economic growth was estimated to have been subdued in the second quarter, held down by a sharp deceleration in economic activity in China amid ongoing property-sector woes. In Europe and Latin America, output likely expanded below its trend pace, as restrictive monetary policy continued to be a drag on activity.

Recent global inflation developments were mixed. In the AFEs, headline inflation edged down in the second quarter but generally remained above target levels. In emerging market economies, headline inflation rose a touch overall, reflecting, in part, run-ups in food prices in some countries. The Bank of Canada and the Swiss National Bank cut their policy rates further, in part citing easing inflation pressures. The People's Bank of China also lowered some key policy rates amid ongoing property-sector woes and weak consumer sentiment.