The manager turned first to a review of developments in financial markets. Financial conditions eased modestly over the intermeeting period, reflecting lower long-term interest rates and higher equity prices. The manager noted that current financial conditions appeared to be providing neither a headwind nor tailwind to growth.

Nominal Treasury yields declined over the period, with shorter-term yields having decreased by more than longer-term yields, leading to a steepening of the yield curve. Treasury yields remained sensitive to surprises in economic data, particularly consumer price index releases and employment reports. While near-term inflation compensation fell over the intermeeting period, longer-term forward measures were little changed. Measures of inflation expectations obtained from term structure models were modestly lower. The policy rate path derived from futures prices and the modal path derived from options prices both declined over the intermeeting period and had come into closer alignment with the median of the modal responses from the Open Market Desk's Survey of Primary Dealers and Survey of Market Participants. Policy expectations, however measured, pointed to a first rate cut at the September FOMC meeting, at least one more cut later in the year, and further policy easing next year.

In the equity markets, the high perceived likelihood of a September cut in the target range for the policy rate induced a notable appreciation in the stocks of firms with small and medium capitalization, which tend to be more sensitive to interest rates. Stocks of larger companies, especially those in the technology sector, underperformed. Second-quarter earnings reports received before the meeting had been slightly above analysts' expectations, although some companies noted a softening in consumer spending.

Expectations for policy rates in most advanced foreign economies (AFEs) declined, as recent data generally pointed to continued progress on inflation. Although most AFE central banks had cut their policy rates or were expected to do so soon, the manager noted that market participants continued to expect the Bank of Japan to tighten policy this year. The sudden announcement of a French election contributed to some short-term market volatility early in the intermeeting period, including a widening between yields of French and German 10-year sovereign bonds and a widening in spreads for off-the-run U.S. Treasury securities, but the effects on U.S. Treasury markets were short lived.

The effective federal funds rate remained unchanged over the intermeeting period, but the manager noted that rates on repurchase agreements (repo) had edged higher, reflecting increased demand for financing Treasury securities as well as the expected effects of gradual balance sheet normalization. Use of the overnight reverse repo (ON RRP) facility declined slightly over the intermeeting period. The staff projected that ON RRP usage would decline more noticeably over the remainder of the year, particularly as issuance of Treasury bills increases. However, the manager noted that it was possible that idiosyncratic factors specific to some ON RRP participants might support ON RRP balances in the months ahead. Looking at a range of money market indicators, the manager concluded that reserves remained abundant but indicated that the staff would continue to closely monitor developments in money markets. Finally, the manager described a set of technical adjustments to the production of the Secured Overnight Financing Rate that the Federal Reserve Bank of New York had proposed in a recent public consultation.

By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Desk's domestic transactions over the intermeeting period. There were no intervention operations in foreign currencies for the System's account during the intermeeting period.