The market-implied path for the federal funds rate moved down over the intermeeting period. Options on interest rate futures suggested that market participants were placing higher odds on a larger policy easing by early 2025 than they did just before the June meeting. Consistent with the downward shift in the implied policy path, nominal Treasury yields moved down, on net, with the most pronounced declines at shorter horizons driven largely by decreases in inflation compensation.

Broad stock price indexes rose slightly on net. Yield spreads on investment- and speculative-grade corporate bonds were little changed and remained at about the lowest decile of their respective historical distributions. The one-month option-implied volatility on the S&P 500 index rose moderately and was somewhat elevated by historical standards, suggesting that investors perceived some, but not outsized, risks to the economic outlook.

Market-based measures of the expected paths of policy rates and sovereign bond yields in most AFEs fell notably, largely in response to declines in U.S. rates. Following the surprise announcement of parliamentary elections in France, the spread between yields of French and German 10-year sovereign bonds widened to its highest level since 2012 but then partially retraced on the outcome of no clear parliamentary majority. The broad dollar index was little changed over the intermeeting period. On balance, moves in foreign risky asset prices were mixed and modest.

Overnight secured rates edged up over the intermeeting period, but conditions in U.S. short-term funding markets remained stable, with typical dynamics observed surrounding quarter-end. Average usage of the ON RRP facility declined slightly. Banks' total deposit levels increased modestly, as large time deposits displayed moderate inflows.

In domestic credit markets, borrowing costs remained elevated over the intermeeting period despite modest declines in some markets. Rates on 30-year conforming residential mortgages declined, on net, over the intermeeting period but stayed near recent high levels. Interest rates on new credit card offers increased slightly, while rates on new auto loans were little changed. Interest rates on small business loans remained elevated. Yields on an array of fixed-income securities—including commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS), investment- and speculative-grade corporate bonds, and residential mortgage-backed securities—moved lower to still-elevated levels relative to recent history. The declines were largely driven by decreases in Treasury yields.

Financing through capital markets and nonbank lenders was readily accessible for public corporations and large and middle-market private corporations, and credit availability for leveraged loan borrowers remained solid over the intermeeting period. For smaller firms, however, credit availability remained moderately tight. In the July Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices (SLOOS), banks reported modestly tighter standards and lending terms for commercial and industrial (C&I) loans, on net, while reported demand for C&I loans remained about unchanged. Meanwhile, C&I loan balances increased in the second quarter. Regarding commercial real estate (CRE) loans, banks in the July SLOOS reported tightening standards for all loan categories. Nonetheless, bank CRE loan balances increased over the second quarter, albeit at a diminished pace relative to the previous quarter.

Credit remained available for most consumers over the intermeeting period, though credit growth showed signs of moderating. Credit card balances slowed in June, and SLOOS respondents indicated that standards for credit cards tightened moderately in the second quarter. Although banks reported in the SLOOS that lending standards on auto loans were unchanged in the second quarter, growth in auto lending at both banks and nonbanks contracted further. In the residential mortgage market, access to credit was little changed overall and continued to depend on borrowers' credit risk attributes.

Credit quality remained solid for large and midsize firms, home mortgage borrowers, and municipalities but continued to deteriorate in other sectors. The credit quality of nonfinancial firms borrowing in the corporate bond and leveraged loan markets remained stable. Delinquency rates on loans to small businesses remained slightly above pre-pandemic levels. Credit quality in the CRE market deteriorated further, with the average delinquency rate for loans in CMBS and the share of nonperforming CRE loans at banks both rising further. Regarding household balance sheets, delinquency rates on most residential mortgages remained near pre-pandemic lows. Though consumer delinquency rates had increased, particularly among nonprime borrowers, the rise in delinquency rates for both credit cards and auto loans slowed in the second quarter.

The staff provided an update on its assessment of the stability of the U.S. financial system and, on balance, continued to characterize the system's financial vulnerabilities as notable. The staff judged that asset valuation pressures remained elevated, with estimates of risk premiums across key markets low compared with historical standards. House prices remained elevated relative to fundamentals. CRE prices continued to decline, especially in the multifamily and office sectors, and vacancy rates in these sectors continued to increase.

Vulnerabilities associated with business and household debt were characterized as moderate. Nonfinancial business leverage was high, but the ability of public firms to service their debt remained solid, in large part due to strong earnings. The fraction of private firms with low debt-servicing ability continued to move up and remained at high levels compared with the past decade. Household balance sheets remained strong overall, as aggregate home equity stayed quite high and delinquencies on mortgage loans remained low.

Leverage in the financial sector was characterized as notable. Regulatory capital ratios in the banking sector remained high. The fair value of bank assets, however, remained low. For the nonbank sector, leverage at hedge funds was at its highest recorded level based on data since 2013, partly due to the prevalence of the cash–futures basis trade. Leverage at life insurers was somewhat elevated, and their holdings of risky and illiquid securities continued to grow.

Funding risks were also characterized as notable. Assets in prime money market funds and other runnable cash-management vehicles remained near historical highs. Life insurers' greater reliance on nontraditional liabilities, coupled with their increasing holdings of risky corporate debt, suggested that adverse shocks to the industry could trigger substantial funding pressures at these firms.