The coronavirus pandemic and the measures undertaken to contain its spread continued to affect economic activity in the United States and abroad. The information available at the time of the November 4–5 meeting suggested that U.S. real gross domestic product (GDP) had rebounded at a rapid rate in the third quarter but remained well below its level at the start of the year. Labor market conditions improved further in September, although the pace of gains eased and employment continued to be well below its level at the beginning of the year. Consumer price inflation—as measured by the 12‑­month percentage change in the price index for personal consumption expenditures (PCE) through September—had returned to its year-earlier pace but remained noticeably below the rates that were posted in January and February.

Total nonfarm payroll employment expanded strongly in September, but the gain was markedly below the even larger increases seen in previous months. Through September, payroll employment had retraced only about half of the decline seen at the onset of the pandemic. The unemployment rate moved down further to 7.9 percent in September. The unemployment rates for African Americans and Asians both decreased, but the unemployment rate for Hispanics was little changed, and each group's rate remained well above the national average. In addition, the overall labor force participation rate declined, and the employment-to-population ratio rose only slightly. Initial claims for unemployment insurance continued to move lower, on net, through late October, and weekly estimates of private-sector payrolls constructed by the Board's staff using data provided by the payroll processor ADP suggested that employment gains from mid‑September to mid‑October remained solid. The employment cost index (ECI) for total hourly labor compensation in the private sector, which likely had been less influenced than other hourly compensation measures by the concentration of recent job losses among lower-wage workers, rose 2.4 percent over the 12 months ending in September. This gain was a little smaller than the index's year‑earlier 12‑month change; in addition, the 3‑month changes in the ECI in June and September were noticeably below the average pace seen over the period from 2017 through 2019.

Total PCE price inflation was 1.4 percent over the 12 months ending in September and continued to be held down by relatively weak aggregate demand and the declines in consumer energy prices seen earlier in the year. Core PCE price inflation, which excludes changes in consumer energy prices and many consumer food prices, was 1.5 percent over the same period, while the trimmed mean measure of 12‑month PCE price inflation constructed by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas was 1.9 percent in September. On a monthly basis, inflation was a little lower in September, largely reflecting slower goods price inflation. The latest readings on survey-based measures of longer-run inflation expectations moved lower, though each remained within the range in which it has fluctuated in recent years; in October, the University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers measure for the next 5 to 10 years fell back to the level that prevailed in early 2020, while in September the 3‑year‑ahead measure from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York retraced its August increase.

Real PCE rose strongly in the third quarter, though the increase was not sufficient to return consumer spending to its pre-pandemic level. Real disposable personal income declined, reflecting a large reduction in government transfer payments. As a result, the personal saving rate moved sharply lower, though it was still elevated relative to its 2019 average. The consumer sentiment measures from the Michigan survey and the Conference Board had moved higher, on net, since August; although both indexes stood above their April troughs, they remained well below their levels at the start of the year.

Housing-sector activity advanced in the third quarter, with real residential investment and home sales both moving above their first‑quarter levels. Activity in this sector was likely being supported by low interest rates, the sector's ability to adjust business practices in response to social distancing, and pent-up demand following the widespread shutdowns earlier in the year.

Business fixed investment expanded strongly, led by an outsized increase in third-quarter equipment spending. By contrast, spending on nonresidential structures continued to move lower and was likely restrained by firms' hesitation to commit to projects with lengthy times to completion and uncertain future returns as well as by the effect of lower oil prices on drilling investment.

Growth in both total industrial production and manufacturing output turned negative in September after having slowed markedly in August. Part of the softness in manufacturing production appeared to be attributable to pandemic-related delays in the motor vehicle industry's model-year changeover, though subdued foreign demand and weaker demand from domestic energy producers were also likely acting to restrain factory output. As of September, manufacturing output had recovered roughly two-thirds of the drop seen earlier in the year.

Total real government purchases declined in the third quarter. Federal nondefense purchases fell especially sharply, largely reflecting a step‑down in lender processing fees associated with the Paycheck Protection Program (PPP). In addition, real purchases by state and local governments declined further.

The nominal U.S. international trade deficit narrowed in September after widening in August. Both exports and imports continued to rebound from their collapse in the first half of the year. Goods imports fully recovered to their January level, with broad-based increases in August and September. In contrast, goods exports by September recovered only two-thirds of their decline since January despite brisk growth in exports of agricultural products and industrial supplies. Services trade remained depressed, driven by the continued suspension of most international travel. Altogether, net exports made a substantial negative contribution to real GDP growth in the third quarter.

Economic activity abroad rebounded sharply in the third quarter following a rollback of pandemic-related restrictions. GDP levels, however, generally remained well below their pre-pandemic peaks, with China being a notable exception. Domestic demand supported the recovery, and in Asia there was also a strong rebound of exports, especially of electronics and, more recently, autos. Third-quarter growth was particularly rapid in those economies that experienced some of the deepest contractions in the second quarter, including France, Italy, and Spain among the advanced foreign economies (AFEs) and Mexico among the emerging market economies. After falling through the end of the summer in many countries, inflation rates started to rise over the past two months but remained well below rates from early in the year.

The rapid increase over recent weeks of new COVID‑19 cases in several AFEs, especially in Europe, prompted governments to reintroduce restrictions to rein in this renewed wave of infections. In late October, the governments of several European countries—including England, France, and Germany—announced new nationwide restrictions (including the closures of bars and restaurants) and, in some cases, restrictions to the mobility of individuals within and across regions. Still, relative to the spring, restrictions were noticeably less severe; factories, most businesses, and schools generally remained open.