The System Open Market Account (SOMA) manager first discussed developments in financial markets. Financial conditions were little changed, on net, over the intermeeting period and remained accommodative. Market participants suggested that evolving expectations for U.S. fiscal policy as well as stronger-than-expected economic data and corporate earnings reports helped support equity prices. Later in the intermeeting period, however, rising COVID-19 cases in Europe and the United States weighed on the outlook, and equity prices reversed some of their earlier gains. Implied volatility in the equity market moved higher during the intermeeting period, reflecting uncertainties associated with the U.S. election and the future path of fiscal policy as well as concerns about the trajectory of COVID-19 cases.

Market participants' expectations for the path of the federal funds rate were little changed over the intermeeting period. In the Open Market Desk's Survey of Primary Dealers and Survey of Market Participants, respondents' views on when the Committee will most likely start raising the target range for the federal funds rate were centered around 2024. Expectations for the economic conditions that will prevail when the FOMC first lifts the target range were little changed since the September surveys.

Respondents to the Desk's surveys generally expected the Federal Reserve's purchases of Treasury securities and agency mortgage-backed securities (MBS) to continue at the current pace through the end of 2021 and then to slow in subsequent years, although there was a wide range of views about purchase amounts for 2022 and 2023. Market participants appeared increasingly focused on how the Committee's communications on asset purchases might evolve. They expected those communications to place a greater emphasis on fostering accommodative financial conditions, and many noted the possibility that at some point the Committee might convey additional guidance about the future path of asset purchases. Some market participants expected the Committee to eventually lengthen the weighted average maturity of the Federal Reserve's purchases of Treasury securities.

The manager turned next to a discussion of financial market functioning, open market operations, and conditions in short-term funding markets. Markets for Treasury securities and agency MBS continued to function smoothly, with bid-ask spreads and a range of other market functioning indicators remaining near pre-pandemic levels. Weekly operations continued for agency commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS), with the Desk purchasing only modest amounts. Short-term dollar funding markets also continued to function smoothly over the period, and forward measures of funding rates were consistent with expectations for calm conditions over year-end.

The Federal Reserve's balance sheet increased modestly over the intermeeting period to $7.2 trillion, as growth in securities holdings was partially offset by a decline in U.S. dollar liquidity swaps outstanding. Outstanding balances for credit and liquidity facilities were little changed. The manager noted that market participants continued to view these facilities as important backstops that would support market functioning and the flow of credit should stresses reemerge.

By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Desk's domestic transactions over the intermeeting period. There were no intervention operations in foreign currencies for the System's account during the intermeeting period.