In the U.S. economic projection prepared by the staff for the November FOMC meeting, the rate of real GDP growth and the pace of declines in the unemployment rate over the second half of this year were similar to those in the September forecast despite material revisions to several assumptions influencing the outlook along with incoming data that were, on balance, better than expected. In particular, in the absence of clear progress toward an agreement on further fiscal stimulus, the staff removed the assumption that an additional tranche of fiscal policy support would be enacted. Although this lack of additional fiscal support was expected to cause significant hardships for a number of households, the staff now assessed that the savings cushion accumulated by other households would be enough to allow total consumption to be largely maintained through year-end. Hence, as in the September projection, the staff continued to expect a rapid but partial rebound in activity over the second half of the year following the unprecedented contraction in the spring. The inflation forecast for the rest of the year was revised up slightly in response to incoming readings on inflation that were, on balance, higher than expected. Nevertheless, inflation was still projected to finish the year at a relatively subdued level, reflecting substantial margins of slack in labor and product markets and the large declines in consumer energy prices seen earlier in the year.

In the staff's medium-term projection, the assumption that significant additional fiscal support would not be enacted pointed to a lower trajectory for aggregate demand going forward. However, recent data on tax receipts also suggested that the fiscal positions of states and localities had deteriorated less than expected, which led the staff to boost the projected path of state and local government purchases. Hence, with monetary policy assumed to remain highly accommodative and social‑distancing measures expected to ease further, the staff continued to project that real GDP over the medium term would outpace potential, leading to a considerable further decline in the unemployment rate. The resulting take­‑up of economic slack was in turn expected to cause inflation to increase gradually, and the inflation rate was projected to moderately overshoot 2 percent for some time in the years beyond 2023 as monetary policy remained accommodative.

The staff continued to observe that the uncertainty related to the future course of the pandemic and its consequences for the economy was high. The staff also continued to view the risks to the economic outlook as tilted to the downside, with the latest data suggesting an increased probability of a resurgence in the disease.