Participants discussed the FOMC's asset purchases, including the role they are playing in supporting the Committee's maximum-employment and price-stability goals. In their discussions, participants focused on the objectives of these purchases; considerations for assessing the appropriate pace and composition of asset purchases over time; communications regarding the future path of asset purchases; and the potential effects of higher levels of reserves, associated with the ongoing expansion in Federal Reserve asset holdings, on banks' balance sheets and money market rates. Participants agreed that this discussion would be helpful for future assessments of the appropriate structure of the Committee's asset purchases. While participants judged that immediate adjustments to the pace and composition of asset purchases were not necessary, they recognized that circumstances could shift to warrant such adjustments. Accordingly, participants saw the ongoing careful consideration of potential next steps for enhancing the Committee's guidance for its asset purchases as appropriate.

The participants' discussion was preceded by staff presentations. The staff reviewed some key considerations relevant for conducting asset purchases in the current environment. The staff judged that the Committee's forward guidance on the federal funds rate, the expansion of the Federal Reserve's securities holdings since March, and expectations for a further expansion all had contributed to a very low level of longer-term yields despite substantial Treasury debt issuance. The staff noted that financial market participants generally expected the Committee to continue its net asset purchases at the current pace through next year and at a reduced pace in subsequent years. The staff discussed various changes the Committee could make to the structure of its purchases, including to their pace and composition as well as to the guidance the Committee has been providing to the public about its future asset purchases. The staff discussed the structure of asset purchase programs of several foreign central banks and how they have evolved during the pandemic. Finally, the staff evaluated how higher levels of reserves associated with the ongoing expansion in the Federal Reserve's asset holdings might influence banks' balance sheets and money market rates and discussed the various tools that the Federal Reserve has for managing money market rates in an environment with very high levels of reserves.

In their discussion regarding the role of the Committee's asset purchases, participants noted that these purchases have supported and sustained smooth market functioning and helped foster accommodative financial conditions. With market functioning seen as having largely recovered, many participants indicated that the role of asset purchases had shifted more toward fostering accommodative financial conditions for households and businesses to support the Committee's employment and inflation goals. Still, participants generally judged that asset purchases would continue to support smooth market functioning, and many judged that asset purchases helped provide insurance against risks that might reemerge in financial markets in an environment of high uncertainty. A few participants indicated that asset purchases could also help guard against undesirable upward pressure on longer-term rates that could arise, for example, from higher-than-expected Treasury debt issuance. Several participants noted the possibility that there may be limits to the amount of additional accommodation that could be provided through increases in the Federal Reserve's asset holdings in light of the low level of longer-term yields, and they expressed concerns that a significant expansion in asset holdings could have unintended consequences.

Participants commented on considerations related to the appropriate pace and composition of asset purchases. Participants generally saw the current pace and composition as effective in fostering accommodative financial conditions. Participants noted that the Committee could provide more accommodation, if appropriate, by increasing the pace of purchases or by shifting its Treasury purchases to those with a longer maturity without increasing the size of its purchases. Alternatively, the Committee could provide more accommodation, if appropriate, by conducting purchases of the same pace and composition over a longer horizon. Pointing to the recently announced change in the Bank of Canada's asset purchase program, several participants judged that the Committee could maintain its current degree of accommodation by lengthening the maturity of the Committee's Treasury purchases while reducing the pace of purchases somewhat. In their view, such a change in the Committee's purchase structure would have to be carefully communicated to the public to avoid the misperception that the reduced pace of purchases represented a decline in the degree of accommodation. A few participants expressed concern that maintaining the current pace of agency MBS purchases could contribute to potential valuation pressures in housing markets.

The September FOMC statement indicated that asset purchases will continue "over coming months," and participants viewed this guidance for asset purchases as having served the Committee well so far. Most participants judged that the Committee should update this guidance at some point and implement qualitative outcome-based guidance that links the horizon over which the Committee anticipates it would be conducting asset purchases to economic conditions. These participants indicated that updating the Committee's guidance for asset purchases in this manner would help keep the market's expectation for future asset purchases aligned with the Committee's intentions. Some of these participants also saw such updated guidance as reinforcing the Committee's commitment to fostering outcomes consistent with maximum employment and inflation that averages 2 percent over time. A few participants were hesitant to make changes in the near term to the guidance for asset purchases and pointed to considerable uncertainty about the economic outlook and the appropriate use of balance sheet policies given that uncertainty.

Participants noted that it would be important for the Committee's guidance for future asset purchases to be consistent with the Committee's forward guidance for the federal funds rate so that the use of these tools would be well coordinated in terms of achieving the Committee's objectives. Most participants judged that the guidance for asset purchases should imply that increases in the Committee's securities holdings would taper and cease sometime before the Committee would begin to raise the target range for the federal funds rate. A number of participants highlighted the view that after net purchases cease there would likely be a period of time in which maturing assets would be reinvested to roughly maintain the size of the Federal Reserve's securities holdings.

Participants commented on how a higher level of reserves associated with the expansion in the Federal Reserve's asset holdings might affect the banking sector and money markets. A few participants raised concerns about the possibility that much higher levels of reserves might create pressure on banks' balance sheets, including on regulatory ratios, or could potentially put undue downward pressure on money market rates. Most participants judged that the Federal Reserve had effective tools to address these circumstances. Some participants noted that, if needed, the Federal Reserve could consider various steps to manage the levels of short-term interest rates and the quantity of reserves, such as adjusting administered rates, expanding the overnight reverse repurchase agreement program, or implementing a maturity extension program.