Financial market sentiment was little changed over the intermeeting period against the backdrop of evolving U.S. election and fiscal outlooks, as well as rising COVID-19 cases in the United States and Europe. On net, the Treasury yield curve steepened modestly, corporate bond spreads narrowed somewhat, and broad equity price indexes increased. Inflation compensation increased a little further, remaining close to pre-pandemic levels. Financing conditions for businesses with access to capital markets and households with high credit scores remained generally accommodative, although conditions remained tight or tightened somewhat for other borrowers.

Yields on two-year nominal Treasury securities were little changed over the intermeeting period, while longer-term yields increased modestly, on net, reportedly reflecting market participants' reassessments of the election outcome and the outlook for fiscal policy. FOMC communications and macroeconomic data releases did not elicit material yield reactions. Measures of inflation compensation based on Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities (TIPS) edged up, on net, remaining close to their pre-pandemic levels. This development reflected in part the recovery of TIPS market liquidity conditions from their stressed levels in the spring. However, both the 5-year and 5-to-10-year measures of inflation compensation remained near the lower ends of their historical ranges.

The expected path for the federal funds rate over the next few years, as implied by a straight read of overnight index swap quotes, was little changed, on net, since the September FOMC meeting and remained close to the effective lower bound (ELB) until the end of 2023. Survey-based expectations favored the first increase in the federal funds rate to occur in 2024.

Broad stock price indexes increased, on balance, over the intermeeting period amid volatility associated with market participants' reactions to news on the U.S. election, the pandemic's trajectory, and the fiscal policy outlook. One-month option-implied volatility on the S&P 500—the VIX—increased some, on net, after briefly rising sharply late in the intermeeting period. Spreads on corporate bond yields over comparable-maturity Treasury yields narrowed across the credit spectrum and stood somewhat below their historical median levels at the end of the intermeeting period.

Conditions in short-term funding markets remained stable over the intermeeting period. Spreads on commercial paper (CP) and negotiable certificates of deposit across different tenors were little changed and remained at pre-pandemic levels. The outstanding level of nonfinancial CP continued to move down over the intermeeting period, reportedly driven by issuers' relatively low appetite for CP funding in light of the availability of longer-term financing on attractive terms. September quarter-end effects were muted, and there was no credit outstanding through the Commercial Paper Funding Facility by the end of the intermeeting period. Conditions in money market funds (MMFs) were also generally calm over the intermeeting period, and net yields of MMFs remained stable near historical lows.

The effective federal funds rate stood at 9 basis points, unchanged from the average over the previous intermeeting period. The Secured Overnight Financing Rate averaged 8 basis points, edging down from the previous intermeeting period amid a modest net decrease in Treasury bill issuance. The amount of Federal Reserve repurchase agreements outstanding remained at zero over the intermeeting period, as dealers were able to obtain more attractive rates in the private market. The Federal Reserve increased holdings of Treasury securities and agency MBS at the same pace as over the previous intermeeting period.

Investor sentiment abroad turned negative over the intermeeting period amid rising COVID-19 case counts, newly adopted restrictions aimed at containing the spread of the virus, and indicators pointing to a slowing recovery in several foreign economies, particularly in the euro area. Uncertainty about additional U.S. fiscal stimulus and the outcome of the U.S. presidential election also caused some asset price volatility abroad. On net, most foreign equity indexes declined, option-implied volatility in the euro area increased a bit, and most AFE long-term sovereign yields fell.

Overall, the broad dollar index was little changed over the intermeeting period. The dollar appreciated modestly against most AFE currencies except the Japanese yen and the British pound. Several Asian currencies, including the Chinese renminbi, the South Korean won, and the Taiwanese dollar, appreciated against the U.S. dollar amid improving growth prospects and low COVID-19 case counts. Most Latin American currencies (especially the Brazilian real ) and the Turkish lira depreciated against the U.S. dollar on concerns about fiscal and political prospects in Latin America and Turkey.

Financing conditions in capital markets continued to be broadly accommodative over the intermeeting period, supported by low interest rates and high equity valuations. With historically low corporate bond yields, gross issuance of both investment- and speculative-grade corporate bonds remained solid in September, moderating from robust readings in August but staying close to the averages seen in recent years. Most of this issuance was reportedly intended to refinance existing debt. Gross institutional leveraged loan issuance continued to pick up in September but remained below its average pace in 2019. Collateralized loan obligation issuance was strong in September, likely supporting robust investor demand for newly issued leveraged loans in the coming months.

The credit quality of nonfinancial corporations continued to show signs of stabilization. The volume of downgrades to corporate bonds and leveraged loans fell to pre-pandemic levels through September. Corporate bond and leveraged loan defaults were low in August and September relative to their elevated readings in July. Market indicators of expected corporate bond and leveraged loan defaults remained somewhat elevated at above pre-pandemic levels, especially for lower-rated leveraged loan issuers.

Commercial and industrial (C&I) loans on banks' balance sheets continued to decline through September, reflecting a mix of weak origination activity and the repayment of credit-line draws from earlier in the year. In the October Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices (SLOOS), banks reported that standards for C&I loans continued to tighten during the third quarter, although fewer banks reported tightening than in previous quarters. In addition, demand for C&I loans reportedly weakened in the third quarter.

Financing conditions for small businesses remained tight as a result of the pandemic. Small business loan originations dropped off sharply in August after a temporary boost from PPP distributions over the summer. At the same time, small businesses' liquidity needs were high and appeared likely to increase further, with the most recent Census Bureau Small Business Pulse Survey pointing to a majority of small businesses having no more than two months of cash on hand and many small businesses anticipating some need for additional financial assistance in the next six months. However, the uncertainty surrounding earning prospects was reportedly making many business owners less willing to take on debt at prevailing terms. Small business loan performance generally deteriorated further over the intermeeting period.

For commercial real estate (CRE) financed through capital markets, financing conditions remained accommodative over the intermeeting period. Spreads on agency CMBS were narrow, and issuance was very strong in September. Spreads on triple-A non-agency CMBS, which were already within their pre-pandemic range in August, moved down further in September and early October, while non-agency issuance remained relatively subdued in September. In contrast, CRE loan growth at banks decelerated in the third quarter, while standards for CRE loans tightened further, according to the October SLOOS.

Financing conditions in the residential mortgage market were little changed over the intermeeting period. Mortgage rates remained near historical lows, supporting high volumes of both home-purchase and refinancing originations. Credit continued to flow to higher-score borrowers meeting standard conforming loan criteria, while it remained tight for borrowers with lower credit scores and for nonstandard mortgage products. Residential real estate loans on banks' balance sheets declined, and the October SLOOS suggested that lending standards tightened for all mortgage types. Mortgage forbearance rates continued their downward trend, and the rate of new delinquencies remained low.

In consumer credit markets, conditions remained accommodative for borrowers with relatively strong credit scores but continued to be tight for borrowers with subprime credit scores. Banks in the October SLOOS indicated that standards tightened and demand was little changed, on balance, across consumer loan types following a sharp contraction in demand in the second quarter. Credit card balances continued to decline through the third quarter, with gains in balances for account holders with prime credit scores offset by declines in those for nonprime accounts. Interest rates on existing accounts were little changed and remained below pre-crisis levels, while interest rates on new accounts to nonprime borrowers remained elevated. Auto loan balances increased solidly for prime and near-prime borrowers but declined for subprime borrowers. Auto loan interest rates increased but stayed below pre-pandemic levels. Conditions in the asset-backed securities market remained stable over the intermeeting period.

The staff provided an update on its assessment of the stability of the financial system. The staff judged that, accounting for low interest rates, asset valuations appeared moderate, with measures of compensation for risk generally in the middle of their historical ranges. However, uncertainty regarding the pandemic and economic outlook has been high, and the risk of sizable declines in asset prices, should adverse shocks materialize, has remained significant. CRE prices had started to decline in some sectors, while market conditions, including rising vacancies and declining rents, pointed to a risk of further drops, especially in severely affected sectors. The staff assessed vulnerabilities associated with household and business borrowing as notable. Household finances had weakened with the economic downturn, and some households could find debt levels burdensome going forward. Business debt levels were high before the pandemic, and the ability of some businesses to service these obligations will depend on the course of the economic recovery. The staff assessed vulnerabilities arising from financial leverage as moderate. While the banking sector has been resilient to recent developments, banks' profitability, as well as that of a range of financial institutions, could be affected by future losses, the weakening of the economic outlook relative to pre-pandemic conditions, and low interest rates. With regard to funding risks, the staff highlighted that structural vulnerabilities in markets for short-term funding and corporate bonds remained present. Emergency facilities were viewed as critical in restoring market functioning and continued to serve as important backstops. The staff also summarized near-term risks to financial stability identified in outreach to the public in recent months, including concerns associated with the outlook for the pandemic and business defaults.