Investors anticipated the FOMC's decision at its March meeting to raise the target federal funds rate 25 basis points, but the Committee's post-meeting statement evidently led them to mark up somewhat their expected path for the federal funds rate. Subsequently, the path was pushed up further by data releases that were, on balance, stronger than market participants had expected. Speeches by Federal Reserve officials, the minutes of the March meeting, and Congressional testimony by the Chairman combined to restrain policy expectations some. On net, the anticipated path of the federal funds rate over the next two years nonetheless rotated upward. Yields on inflation-indexed Treasury securities moved up over the intermeeting period, but yields on nominal Treasury issues rose more. Spreads of yields on investment-grade bonds over those on comparable-maturity Treasury securities were about unchanged, while those on speculative-grade bonds declined. Major stock price indexes were up a bit over the intermeeting period, as positive first-quarter earnings reports more than offset the negative effects of higher energy prices and rising interest rates.

The trade-weighted exchange value of the dollar against major foreign currencies fell since the March meeting. Increased focus in public debate on the risks posed by the large U.S. external imbalance appeared to erode investor support for the dollar.

Domestic nonfinancial sector debt was estimated to have grown at a robust pace in the first quarter, down only slightly from the brisk pace of 2005. Business sector debt appeared to have expanded strongly, supported by significant net issuance of U.S. corporate bonds and double-digit growth of business loans at commercial banks. In the household sector, consumer credit continued to rise slowly, and the growth of household mortgage debt was thought, based on limited data, to have moderated somewhat in the first quarter against a backdrop of higher mortgage interest rates and some signs of a deceleration in house prices. M2 advanced at a pace somewhat below that of nominal GDP in the first quarter and was estimated to have expanded moderately in April.