The information reviewed at this meeting suggested that economic activity expanded strongly in the first quarter and that gains were widespread across most categories of final sales. Consumer spending posted a sizable increase, driven by January's bounceback in motor vehicle purchases and an acceleration in spending on other goods at the turn of the year. In addition, favorable weather boosted housing construction early in the quarter. Later in the quarter, however, the pace of consumer spending moderated, and housing starts retraced their earlier run-up. Business investment spending strengthened in the first quarter, in part because of a surge in the purchases of transportation and high-tech equipment and a step-up in nonresidential construction. Manufacturing production also posted solid gains in the first quarter and payroll growth moderated a bit in April after robust gains in employment in the first quarter. Overall consumer prices jumped in March because of higher energy prices, while core prices rose a bit more rapidly than in earlier months.

Nonfarm payrolls increased by 138,000 jobs in April following robust growth in March. The gains in April were widespread: Manufacturing and related industries registered significant increases, mining activity and employment were boosted by rising energy prices, construction hiring posted a moderate gain, and a range of services-producing industries strengthened, with the important exception of retail trade, which more than reversed its March gains. Average hours of production or nonsupervisory workers on private nonfarm payrolls edged up in April. The increases in the workweek and employment in April led to notable growth in aggregate hours of production or nonsupervisory workers. The unemployment rate edged down to 4.7 percent in March and remained at that level in April.

Industrial production in March expanded at about the same strong pace as it did in February, with gains posted across all major components of the index. Manufacturing activity picked up in March after a lull in February. While manufacturing growth for the first quarter as a whole slowed from the rapid pace of the fourth quarter, it exceeded that of the previous year. Manufacturing capacity utilization during the quarter was a bit above its long-run average. Mining output--which includes oil and natural gas extraction--strengthened in the first quarter as a whole. Within the quarter, however, the boost from hurricane-related recovery seemed to ebb. While utility output surged in February and moved up a bit more in March, these increases only partly reversed the weather-related plunge in January.

Growth of consumer spending appeared to moderate after posting sizable gains around the turn of the year. Excluding motor vehicles, real outlays rose temperately in March, boosted by the continued rise in spending on services. Spending on goods excluding motor vehicles posted a second-straight monthly decline after robust gains over the previous four months. Sales of light vehicles held steady in March and picked up a bit in April, bringing the average pace for the year well above that of the fourth quarter but about even with the rate of last year. Although continued improvements in the labor market had been generating considerable gains in nominal wage and salary income, rising gasoline prices held down the increase in real disposable personal income in March and were expected to damp it in April as well. Ongoing increases in home prices and additional gains in the stock market, however, further boosted household wealth during the first quarter. Measures of consumer confidence remained consistent with moderate increases in consumer spending.

The underlying pace of residential activity seemed to moderate in the first quarter. After unseasonably warm weather allowed a high level of single-family housing starts in January and February, starts fell in March to their lowest level in a year. New permit issuance for single-family homes also fell in March, continuing its downward trend. Multifamily starts recovered a bit in March from their low rate in February but remained well within their historical range. Home sales also declined, on net, in recent months. Although sales of existing single-family homes edged up in February and March, the level of sales for the first quarter as a whole was notably below the record high in the second quarter of last year. Sales of new homes also moved up in March, but their average in the first quarter was down substantially from the peak in the third quarter of last year. House price appreciation appeared to have slowed from the elevated rates seen over the past summer. Growth in the average sales price of existing homes in March, versus a year earlier, decelerated sharply, and the average price for new homes in March fell compared to a year earlier. In addition, other indicators, such as months' supply of both new and existing homes for sale and the index of pending home sales, supported the view that housing markets had cooled in recent months.

Real outlays for equipment and software surged in the first quarter after a relatively subdued performance in the fourth quarter of last year. Much of the growth reflected a sharp jump in business purchases of transportation equipment, such as airplanes and motor vehicles. Spending on high-tech equipment and software also improved as exceptionally strong growth in expenditures for communications equipment more than compensated for fairly soft spending on computers and peripherals and on software. Conditions in the nonresidential construction sector improved noticeably. Although spending on nonresidential building construction remained well short of the robust levels seen in late 2000, growth of expenditures in this sector was at its fastest pace in the first quarter in nearly six years. Outlays on drilling and mining structures continued to climb in the first quarter, and available data pointed to ongoing growth.

Real nonfarm inventories stepped down in the first quarter, largely reflecting a decline in investment in motor vehicle inventories. Excluding motor vehicles, inventories increased at a pace well above that in the fourth quarter. Over the past twelve months, inventories relative to shipments and sales had moved down moderately on balance, extending the long-run downward trend.

The U.S. international trade deficit narrowed in February as a sharp decrease in imports more than offset a modest fall in exports. The declines in both categories were generally widespread across sectors with the exception of oil imports, which were flat, and imported services, which rose. Incoming data for foreign industrial economies were generally favorable and pointed to continued expansion. Available data showed continued growth in GDP in the United Kingdom in the first quarter, continuing strong domestic demand in Canada through February, ongoing recovery in Japan, and a first-quarter rebound in euro-area economic performance.

Headline inflation turned up in March. Although the price of natural gas had fallen because of continued plentiful inventories, retail gasoline prices surged, leading to a jump in overall energy prices for the month. Prices of core goods and services also rose more quickly in March, largely because of a spike in the apparel component that unwound a decline in February and a one-time step-up in medical prices related to changes in Medicare reimbursement rules. During the twelve months ending in March, overall inflation rose at a slightly faster pace than that in the preceding twelve-month period, while core prices for the same period increased a bit more slowly than in the previous year. Producer price inflation also moved up in March, driven largely by higher food and energy prices. Readings on the growth in the cost of labor were mixed. Over the three months ending in March, the employment cost index for hourly compensation of private industry workers rose at its slowest pace in several years. Data on compensation per hour in the nonfarm business sector, however, pointed toward notably faster growth in the first quarter. Some financial-market and survey indicators suggested that inflation expectations, both for the upcoming year and for the longer term, had moved up since the March meeting.

At its March meeting, the Federal Open Market Committee decided to raise its target for the federal funds rate 25 basis points, to 4¾ percent. In its accompanying statement, the Committee indicated that the slowing of the growth of real GDP in the fourth quarter of 2005 seemed largely to have reflected temporary or special factors. Economic growth had rebounded strongly in the first quarter but seemed likely to moderate to a more sustainable pace. As yet, the run-up in the prices of energy and other commodities appeared to have had only a modest effect on core inflation, ongoing productivity gains had helped to hold the growth of unit labor costs in check, and inflation expectations had remained contained. Still, the Committee noted that possible increases in resource utilization, in combination with the elevated prices of energy and other commodities, had the potential to add to inflation pressures. In these circumstances, the Committee judged that some further policy firming may be needed to keep the risks to the attainment of both sustainable economic growth and price stability roughly in balance, but reiterated that in any event the Committee would respond to changes in economic prospects as needed to foster these objectives.