In their discussion of the economic situation and outlook, meeting participants saw the economy as having rebounded strongly so far this year after the slowing of growth in the fourth quarter. The advance in output had been vigorous in the first quarter of this year, with real GDP increasing at around a 5 percent annual rate. Although the expansion appeared likely to moderate, it evidently remained solid. Inflation pressures appeared to be somewhat greater than the Committee had anticipated at the time of its March meeting. Consumer prices recently had risen at a pace noticeably above the average rise over the previous twelve months. Also, prices of energy and many other commodities had climbed sharply of late, and inflation expectations appeared to have risen slightly. If economic growth continued to moderate over coming quarters, as anticipated, pressures on productive resources would most likely continue to be limited. Most participants expected that, after allowing for some possible near-term volatility related to the recent jump in energy and other commodity prices, core inflation would probably remain around the levels experienced on average over the past year. However, recent developments suggested that upside risks to inflation had risen somewhat since the time of the March meeting.

In their discussion of major sectors of the economy, some participants noted that growth of household spending was likely to slow over the remainder of the year. Anecdotal information pointed to some cooling of housing markets. That cooling was especially noticeable for high-end homes and for houses in markets that previously had experienced the steepest appreciation. Data on home sales, permits, and starts on the whole likewise suggested that activity was gradually diminishing. Some reports indicated that speculative building of homes had dropped off considerably, but inventories of unsold homes still seemed to be expanding. Although fresh comprehensive data were not available, home prices on average appeared still to be rising, but at a slower pace than over the past few years. Going forward, growth in consumption spending was likely to be supported by gains in employment and personal income. But slower appreciation of home prices and the effects of the increases in energy prices and interest rates that had already occurred would likely act to restrain consumption spending somewhat. Certain features of recently popular nontraditional mortgage products had the potential to cause financial difficulties for some households and erode mortgage loan performance for some lenders. Nonetheless, the household sector seemed likely to remain in sound financial condition overall. On balance, consumption spending was viewed as most likely to expand at a moderate pace in coming quarters.

Several participants remarked that business investment spending was robust. Nonresidential construction was accelerating notably, in the process absorbing some of the resources that were being diverted from housing. Office vacancy rates were declining, spurring construction of new office buildings. Drilling and mining activity was said to be particularly strong, propelled by the high levels of energy prices. Investment in equipment and software appeared to be expanding at a solid rate. Capital formation was likely to continue to be supported by rising output, strong balance sheets in the business sector, and ready availability of financing on attractive terms.

Some participants commented on the recent surge in federal tax revenues, a development that was being mirrored at the state level. While the precise reasons for the increase in federal receipts were not entirely clear, robust income growth was probably an important factor. In any case, the effect was to trim the current federal budget deficit noticeably. Nonetheless, the longer-run federal fiscal imbalance remained a serious concern.

Data on economic growth outside the United States indicated that the global expansion was firming, a sense amplified by reports from international contacts. The apparent strengthening of global growth was likely to support U.S. exports and economic activity and would also tend to maintain upward pressures on energy and commodity prices.

Meeting participants expressed some concern about recent price developments and their implications for inflation prospects. Core consumer inflation lately had been a little higher than expected. Moreover, energy prices had risen steeply in the period since the March meeting, and, although pass-through apparently had been limited to date, the most recent increases might be reflected to a greater degree in core inflation in coming months. Participants noted that prices of non-energy commodities, such as industrial metals and building supplies, also had been climbing. The recent decline in the dollar was another factor that could add to inflation pressures, although the effect of prior changes in the foreign exchange value of the dollar on core consumer prices had apparently been limited. Business contacts had reported continued shortages of certain types of skilled labor and related wage pressures in some occupations, which would tend to boost costs.

However, participants also cited some factors that could be expected to restrain inflation. Although alternative measures of labor compensation provided divergent readings, growth of total compensation on balance appeared to remain moderate. And, even if nominal wages should accelerate somewhat, relatively wide profit margins could buffer the effect on prices of final goods and services. While firms would seek to maintain those margins, recent experience suggested that this might be accomplished in part through further productivity gains, which had remained fairly strong on balance in recent quarters, rather than through more rapid price hikes.

Participants discussed in some detail inflation expectations--a potentially important factor influencing future inflation trends. Some surveys suggested that inflation expectations had risen in recent weeks, but others implied that expectations were little changed. Measures of inflation compensation based on the difference between yields on nominal Treasury securities and inflation-indexed issues had edged higher. It was possible, though, that investors' uncertainty regarding inflation prospects, not just inflation expectations themselves, had risen. On balance, participants judged that inflation expectations had risen somewhat--a development that would have to be taken into account in policymaking and warranted close monitoring--but remained contained.