Over the intermeeting period, the market-implied path for the federal funds rate through 2024 increased markedly, reversing the declines that had occurred since late last year. Consistent with the increase in the implied policy rate path, intermediate- and longer-term Treasury yields moved up over the period, with larger increases concentrated at shorter maturities. Most of the increase in short-term Treasury yields was attributed to a rise in near-term inflation compensation. Market-based measures of near-term interest rate uncertainty for shorter-term yields remained elevated by historical standards, in part reflecting investors' continued uncertainty about the path of policy rates.

Despite the rise in interest rates, broad stock price indexes increased notably amid upbeat corporate earnings reports, particularly for the largest firms. Yield spreads on investment-grade corporate bonds were little changed, and those on speculative-grade bonds narrowed slightly. The one-month option-implied volatility on the S&P 500 index increased slightly over the period but remained low by historical standards.

Changes in foreign financial asset prices over the intermeeting period were largely driven by spillovers from U.S. financial markets. Risk appetite generally improved, leading to increases in foreign equity indexes and a narrowing of EME credit spreads. Short-term yields in the AFEs were also boosted by less-accommodative-than-expected communications by European Central Bank officials. Longer-term AFE yields and the broad dollar index were little changed on net. At its meeting on March 19, the BOJ exited negative interest rate policy and increased its overnight policy rate from negative 0.1 percent to a range of 0 to 0.1 percent. This policy rate hike was the first by the BOJ in 17 years. The BOJ also ended its yield curve control policy but indicated that it would continue bond purchases. The changes were widely expected, and market reactions were limited.

Conditions in U.S. short-term funding markets remained stable over the intermeeting period. Usage of the ON RRP facility continued to decline. However, the decline in average take-up was less than in the two previous periods, suggesting that the rate of decline could be slowing. The continuing decline in ON RRP take-up primarily reflected money market funds' (MMFs) ongoing reallocation of assets to Treasury bills amid continued bill issuance and relatively attractive bill yields.

Banks' total deposit levels edged up further in January and February, likely reflecting, in part, rising nominal income and somewhat more competitive deposit rates. MMFs continued to provide relatively attractive yields to investors and experienced modest inflows since the January FOMC meeting.

In domestic credit markets, over the intermeeting period, borrowing costs remained elevated. Rates on loans to households generally rose in recent months, including those for 30-year conforming residential mortgages. Interest rates on credit card offers increased through December, while rates on new auto loans remained elevated through late February, near their recent highs. Yields moved higher on a variety of fixed-income securities, including commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS), investment- and speculative-grade corporate bonds, and residential MBS. Yields on leveraged loans, which are generally linked to the Secured Overnight Financing Rate, declined somewhat in line with the narrowing of credit spreads. In addition, interest rates on small business loans ticked down in January but remained elevated.

Credit continued to be available to most businesses, households, and municipalities. Large nonfinancial corporations continued to find credit generally accessible. Capital market financing was robust during the intermeeting period, while commercial and industrial loan balances expanded modestly. For small firms, loan originations were stable despite the tightening of credit standards.

Credit in the residential mortgage market remained generally available, although mortgage originations remained subdued. Consumer credit remained easily available as credit card balances expanded robustly in January and February, and credit card limits continued to increase broadly. Growth in auto lending at finance companies was muted in January following robust growth last year.

CRE borrowers continued to find credit readily accessible over the period. CRE loans at banks picked up moderately in January and February, driven by growth in multifamily and residential loans. Non-agency CMBS issuance volume was moderate, on average, in January and February.

Credit quality for large firms and home mortgage borrowers remained solid but generally deteriorated further in sectors such as CRE and credit cards. The trailing six-month default rates on corporate borrowers' bonds and loans remained low in February. In contrast, credit rating downgrades outpaced upgrades for leveraged loans and corporate bonds in January and February. Credit quality of small businesses deteriorated further in recent months.

Mortgage delinquency rates for conventional and Department of Veterans Affairs loans were largely unchanged in December and January, but delinquency rates on Federal Housing Administration loans picked up slightly. Credit card delinquency rates increased a bit further in the fourth quarter and stood above levels seen just before the pandemic. The upward trend in the auto delinquency rate appeared to have stopped in the second half of last year, with the delinquency rate in the fourth quarter remaining a little above its pre-pandemic average.

Delinquency rates for nonfarm nonresidential loans at banks increased at the end of 2023 to a level last seen in late 2014. The delinquency rate for office properties in CMBS pools continued to increase in January and February. Delinquency rates would have been higher had many borrowers with loans maturing last year not received extensions. CMBS delinquency rates for most other property types were stable at normal-to-low levels, partly because many of these borrowers were also able to extend their loans when they reached maturity last year. The deterioration in CRE credit quality sparked investor concerns about the health of a few small U.S. and foreign banks over the intermeeting period.