The manager turned first to a review of developments in financial markets over the intermeeting period. U.S. financial conditions had eased modestly since the January FOMC meeting, with higher equity prices more than offsetting increases in interest rates. Nominal Treasury yields had risen over the intermeeting period. At shorter maturities, most of the increase was attributable to a rise in inflation compensation, prompted by indications that the decline in inflation was proceeding somewhat more slowly than markets in recent months had been expecting. In contrast, at longer maturities, much of the increase in Treasury yields was due to a rise in real rates, reflecting solid labor market readings and stronger-than-expected data on economic activity.

The manager turned next to policy rate expectations. An estimate of the expected federal funds rate path derived from futures prices shifted up significantly over the intermeeting period. The modal federal funds rate path implied by options prices had also risen, but by substantially less than the futures-implied path. The move up in the futures-implied path reflected in part some shift in expectations toward policy rate cuts beginning later in the year, and cumulating to a smaller rate reduction in 2024, than previously assessed. Investors also appeared to have considerably lowered the perceived probability of more substantial rate cuts than in their baseline expectations. This lowering was evident in significantly more concentrated probability distributions for the federal funds rate over coming quarters. The changes in policy rate expectations over the intermeeting period occurred in the wake of stronger economic data, perceptions that disinflation might be proceeding more slowly than previously thought, and Federal Reserve communications. The median of modal paths of the federal funds rate obtained from the Open Market Desk's Survey of Primary Dealers and Survey of Market Participants was also slightly higher. Responses still indicated substantial differences among survey participants in their assessments of the total amount of rate cuts likely to occur this year.

The manager then discussed expectations regarding balance sheet policy. Survey responses reflected judgments that the Committee's slowing of balance sheet runoff would begin slightly later than previously expected, with the majority of survey participants now expecting the slowing to start around midyear. Balance sheet runoff was expected to continue for some time thereafter, and survey responses suggested a slightly smaller balance sheet size at the end of runoff than respondents had previously assessed.

The manager noted that broad equity prices had reached new highs over the intermeeting period. This growth was again driven primarily by the strong increases in valuations of large-capitalization technology companies, while broader equity price gains were more measured. Recent bank equity price behavior reflected renewed market attention on the challenges faced by the regional banking sector, particularly that sector's exposures to commercial real estate (CRE). In global financial markets, the expected policy rate path in most advanced foreign economies (AFEs) shifted up over the intermeeting period. At the end of the intermeeting period, the Bank of Japan (BOJ) announced that it would discontinue its policies of a negative short-term interest rate and yield curve control; this decision was largely expected by investors, and the BOJ's announcement had a limited effect on global financial markets.

Conditions in U.S. money markets had been stable over the intermeeting period, with less upward pressure on repurchase agreement (repo) rates than in recent intermeeting periods. The usage of the overnight reverse repurchase agreement (ON RRP) facility had continued to decline, albeit at a somewhat slower pace than that seen over the second half of 2023. Staff projections suggested that total ON RRP balances might stabilize in coming months at either zero or a low level. This assessment was also supported by information acquired in Desk outreach efforts.

The manager provided an update on indicators of reserve conditions. Over the past few years, rate control had been effective, with the effective federal funds rate being firmly within the Committee's target range. The staff assessed that, over the intermeeting period, the federal funds rate continued to be insensitive to day-to-day changes in the supply of reserves. This outcome, together with various other indicators of reserve conditions, supported the conclusion that reserves remained abundant. The manager noted that there was nevertheless significant uncertainty about the demand for reserves and that, under the current pace of runoff of the Federal Reserve's securities portfolio, stabilization in total ON RRP balances would, all else equal, cause reserves to start declining at a rapid rate.

By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Desk's domestic transactions over the intermeeting period. There were no intervention operations in foreign currencies for the System's account during the intermeeting period.