The information available at the time of the March 19–20 meeting suggested that U.S. real gross domestic product (GDP) was expanding at a solid rate in the first quarter, although slower than its robust fourth-quarter pace. Labor market conditions remained strong in recent months. Consumer price inflation—as measured by the 12-month change in the price index for personal consumption expenditures (PCE)—continued to trend down, though it remained above 2 percent.

Labor demand and supply appeared to continue to move into better balance, although recent indicators were mixed. Total nonfarm payroll employment increased at a faster average monthly pace over January and February than in the fourth quarter. In contrast, the unemployment rate edged up to 3.9 percent in February, while the labor force participation rate and the employment-to-population ratio were essentially unchanged. The unemployment rate for African Americans increased, and the rate for Hispanics was unchanged; both rates were higher than those for Asians and for Whites. The private-sector job openings rate and the quits rate were little changed in January, and both rates were far below their year-earlier levels. The 12-month change in average hourly earnings for all employees was essentially the same in February as it was at the end of last year, and it remained well below its level a year ago. The Wage Growth Tracker constructed by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta was lower over the past two months than readings last year.

Consumer price inflation continued to decline, but recent progress was uneven. Total PCE prices increased 2.5 percent over the 12 months ending in January, while core PCE price inflation—which excludes changes in energy prices and many consumer food prices—was 2.9 percent over the same period. Both of those 12-month measures continued to trend down, although the month-over-month readings for January had moved up. The trimmed mean measure of 12-month PCE price inflation constructed by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas was 3.2 percent in January, lower than its level a year earlier. Over the 12 months ending in February, the consumer price index (CPI) increased 3.2 percent and core CPI rose 3.8 percent; both 12-month measures were below their year-ago levels even though the recent month-over-month CPI readings had firmed a bit. Recent survey measures of consumers' inflation expectations at both shorter- and longer-term horizons were broadly in line with the levels seen in the decade before the pandemic.

Recent indicators suggested that real GDP was increasing at a solid pace in the first quarter, although more slowly than its robust fourth-quarter rate. Incoming data pointed to some slowing in PCE growth, as expenditures declined in January and the components of the retail sales data used to estimate PCE were soft in February. January's readings on orders and shipments of nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft and on nonresidential construction spending suggested some deceleration in business fixed investment. In contrast, starts and permits for single-family homes in January and February pointed to a modest pickup in residential investment growth. Real exports of goods stepped down in January relative to December following rapid growth last quarter. By contrast, real goods imports picked up in January, as higher imports of capital goods and automotive products more than offset lower imports of consumer goods. Overall, the nominal U.S. international trade deficit widened in January, as goods and services imports expanded more than exports, which increased only slightly.

In contrast to strong U.S. GDP growth in the fourth quarter, economic growth in foreign economies was generally weak amid tight monetary policy, the erosion in real household incomes from high inflation, and the ongoing repercussions of the 2022 energy shock in Europe. More recently, purchasing managers indexes in Europe through February and other indicators provided tentative signs of some firming in the region's economic activity. In China, economic data for January and February were somewhat mixed. Although exports, investment, and industrial production were strong, household demand remained depressed amid China's ongoing property-sector slump. On the other hand, some economies in emerging Asia performed well, in part reflecting strong demand for leading-edge semiconductors.

Foreign headline inflation picked up early in the year as the downward pressure from previous energy price declines waned and some emerging market economies (EMEs) experienced renewed food price pressures due to adverse weather. Most major foreign central banks kept their policy rates unchanged over the intermeeting period and emphasized the need for greater confidence that inflation was falling back to target before easing policy.