Investor sentiment weakened over the early part of the intermeeting period, reflecting a few weaker-than-expected domestic data releases, but later strengthened on increased optimism regarding ongoing trade negotiations between the United States and China and positive Brexit news. On net, equity prices and corporate bond spreads were little changed, and the Treasury yield curve steepened a bit. Financing conditions for businesses and households remained generally supportive of spending and economic activity.

September FOMC communications were viewed as slightly less accommodative than expected, with investors reportedly surprised by the Summary of Economic Projections showing that a majority of FOMC participants anticipated no further easing this year. Incoming data early in the intermeeting period—particularly the disappointing readings on business activity—prompted a decline in the market-implied path for the policy rate, but that decline was later partly reversed as market participants apparently grew more optimistic on the prospects for a U.S.–China trade deal and Brexit negotiations. Late in the period, quotes on federal funds futures options contracts indicated that market participants assigned a very high probability to a 25 basis point reduction in the target range of the federal funds rate at the October FOMC meeting. In addition, market-implied expectations for the federal funds rate at year-end and next year moved down.

Yields on nominal U.S. Treasury securities moved down in the early part of the intermeeting period but later retraced their declines. On net, the Treasury yield curve steepened a bit, mostly reflecting a modest decline in short-term yields. Measures of inflation compensation over the next 5 years and 5 to 10 years ahead based on Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities inched down and remained near multiyear low levels.

Broad stock price indexes fell by as much as 4 percent during the first half of the intermeeting period but recovered afterward, ending the period roughly unchanged. Option-implied volatility on the S&P 500 index declined slightly and ended the period below the middle of its historical distribution. On net, corporate credit spreads were little changed.

Domestic short-term funding markets were volatile in mid-September and exhibited additional, albeit modest, pressures around the September quarter-end and the mid-October Treasury settlement date. These pressures were alleviated in part by the Desk's overnight and term repo operations that began on September 17. After smoothing through rate volatility over the period, interest rates for overnight unsecured and secured funding declined roughly in line with the reduction in the target range for the federal funds rate at the September FOMC meeting and the associated 30 basis point decrease in the interest on excess reserves (IOER) rate. The effective federal funds rate (EFFR) was more volatile than usual over the intermeeting period, with the EFFR–IOER spread ranging between 2 basis points and 10 basis points. Rates on overnight commercial paper (CP) and short-term negotiable certificates of deposit declined fairly quickly following the announcement of Desk operations on September 17, al­though some CP rates remained elevated into October. The FOMC's October 11 announcement of Treasury bill purchases and repo operations to maintain reserves at or above their early-September level appeared to improve expectations about funding market conditions through the remainder of the year. These communications reportedly did not materially affect yields on longer-term Treasury securities.

Financial markets in the AFEs followed a pattern similar to that seen in the United States. AFE financial conditions tightened early in the intermeeting period on disappointing activity data, both in the United States and abroad, and subsequently recovered on perceived better prospects for trade and Brexit negotiations. Movements in the exchange value of the dollar against most currencies were relatively modest, and the broad dollar index declined slightly. Relative to the dollar, the British pound appreciated on Brexit developments, and the Argentinian peso continued to depreciate amid the country's political developments.

The mid-September increases in U.S. Treasury repo rates spilled over to borrowing rates in the international dollar funding market. However, the measures taken by the Federal Reserve to keep the federal funds rate in the target range also calmed dollar funding conditions in the foreign exchange swap market.

Financing conditions for nonfinancial businesses remained generally accommodative during the intermeeting period. Gross issuance of corporate bonds, which was strong in September, experienced a typical seasonal decline in October. Gross issuance of institutional leveraged loans remained solid but slightly below 2019 monthly averages. Meanwhile, growth of commercial and industrial (C&I) loans at banks was modest in the third quarter as a whole. Respondents to the October 2019 Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices (SLOOS) reported that borrower demand weakened for C&I loans over the third quarter, while lending standards on such loans were about unchanged. Gross equity issuance through both initial and seasoned offerings picked up to a strong pace in September but moderated in October. The credit quality of nonfinancial corporations deteriorated slightly in recent months but remained solid on balance. Credit conditions for both small businesses and municipalities stayed accommodative on net.

In the commercial real estate (CRE) sector, financing conditions also remained generally accommodative. The volume of agency and non-agency commercial mortgage-backed securities issuance was strong in September, in part supported by recent declines in interest rates. Growth of CRE loans on banks' books was little changed in the third quarter. Banks in the October SLOOS reported tighter lending standards for all types of CRE loans; they also reported weaker demand for construction lending and stronger demand for the other CRE lending categories.

Financing conditions in the residential mortgage market remained accommodative on balance. Mortgage rates were little changed since the September FOMC meeting and stayed near their lowest level since mid-2016. In September, home-purchase originations remained around the relatively high level seen during the previous two months, while refinancing originations jumped to their highest level since late 2012. In the October SLOOS, banks left their lending standards basically unchanged for most residential real estate loan categories over the third quarter. However, for subprime loans, a moderate net percentage of banks reported tightening standards.

Financing conditions in consumer credit markets remained generally supportive of household spending, al­though conditions continued to be tight for credit card borrowers with nonprime credit scores. Interest rates on auto loans fell, on net, since the beginning of the year, and interest rates on credit card accounts leveled off through August. According to the October SLOOS, commercial banks tightened their standards on credit cards and other consumer loans over the third quarter. Additionally, banks reported that their standards on auto loans and their willingness to make consumer installment loans were about unchanged on balance.

The staff provided an update on its assessments of potential risks to financial stability. On balance, the staff characterized the financial vulnerabilities of the U.S. financial system as moderate. The staff judged that, for many asset classes, valuation pressures eased over the past year. Appetite for risk in the leveraged loan market remained elevated, but less so than last year, especially for lower-rated loans. In addition, CRE prices remained high relative to rental income. In assessing vulnerabilities stemming from borrowing in the household and business sectors, the staff noted that, while household borrowing continued to decline relative to nominal GDP, business leverage remained at or near record-high levels. The risks associated with leverage at financial institutions were viewed as being low, as they have been for some time, largely because of high capital ratios at large banks. Nonetheless, the staff noted that the resilience of financial institutions could be undermined by low interest rates and banks' announced plans to increase payouts to shareholders. The staff assessed vulnerabilities stemming from funding risk as modest. In addition, the staff discussed the potential for liquidity transformation by open-ended mutual funds investing in bank loans to lead to market dislocations under stress scenarios, while noting that outflows from such funds have not often been associated with such dislocations.