The manager pro tem first reviewed developments in financial markets over the intermeeting period. Early in the period, market participants focused on signs of weakness in U.S. economic data with some soft data from business surveys viewed as substantiating concerns that global headwinds were spilling over to the U.S. economy. Later in the period, markets responded to news suggesting favorable developments around Brexit and a partial U.S.-China trade deal. On balance, U.S. financial conditions ended the period little changed.

Regarding the outlook for U.S. monetary policy, the Open Market Desk's surveys and market-based indicators pointed to a high likelihood of a 25 basis point cut in the target range at the October meeting. The probability that survey respondents placed on this outcome was broadly similar to the probability of a 25 basis point cut ahead of the July and September meetings. Further ahead, the path implied by the medians of survey respondents' modal forecasts for the federal funds rate remained essentially flat after this meeting. Meanwhile, the market-implied path suggested that investors expected around 25 basis points of additional easing by the end of 2020, after the anticipated easing at this meeting.

The manager pro tem next turned to a review of money market developments since early October. On October 11, the Committee announced its decision to maintain reserves at or above the level that prevailed in early September through a program of Treasury bill purchases and repurchase agreement (repo) operations. After the announcement, the Desk conducted regular operations that offered at least $75 billion in overnight repo funding and between $135 and $170 billion in term funding. These operations fostered conditions that helped maintain the federal funds rate within the target range through two channels. First, they provided funding in repo markets that dampened repo market pressure that would otherwise have passed through to the federal funds market, and second, they increased the supply of reserves in the banking system. In anticipation of another projected sharp decline in reserves and expected rate pressures around October 31, the Desk announced an increase in the size of overnight repos to $120 billion, and an increase in the size of the two term repo operations that crossed the October month-end to $45 billion.

With respect to purchases of Treasury bills for reserve management purposes, the Desk had purchased more than half of the initial $60 billion monthly amount for October, and propositions at the five operations conducted to date had been strong. Respondents to the Desk surveys expected reserve management purchases of Treasury bills to continue at the same pace for some time. The combination of repo operations and bill purchases lifted reserve levels above those observed in early September.

The manager pro tem noted that diminished willingness of some dealers to intermediate across money markets ahead of the year-end could result in upward pressure on short-term money market rates. Forward measures of market pricing continued to indicate expectations for such pressures around the year-end. The Desk planned to continue its close monitoring of reserves and money market conditions, as well as dealer participation in repo operations, particularly given balance sheet constraints heading into year-end. The Desk discussed its intentions to further adjust operations around year-end as needed to mitigate the risk of money market pressures that could adversely affect policy implementation, and to maintain over time a level of reserve balances at or above those that prevailed in early September.

The manager pro tem finished by noting that the Federal Reserve Bank of New York would soon release a request for public comment on a plan to publish a series of backward looking Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR) averages and a daily SOFR index to support the transition away from instruments based on LIBOR (London interbank offered rate). Publication of these series was expected to begin in the first half of 2020.

By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Desk's domestic transactions over the intermeeting period. There were no intervention operations in foreign currencies for the System's account during the intermeeting period.