The information available for the October 29–30 meeting indicated that labor market conditions remained strong and that real gross domestic product (GDP) increased at a moderate rate in the third quarter. Consumer price inflation, as measured by the 12-month percentage change in the price index for personal consumption expenditures (PCE), remained below 2 percent in August. Survey-based measures of longer-run inflation expectations were little changed.

Total nonfarm payroll employment expanded at a slower pace in September than in the previous two months, but the average pace for the third quarter was similar to that for the first half of the year. However, the pace of job gains so far this year was slower than last year, even after accounting for the anticipated effects of the Bureau of Labor Statistics' benchmark revision to payroll employment, which will be incorporated in the published data in February 2020. The unemployment rate moved down to a 50-year low of 3.5 percent in September, while the labor force participation rate held steady and the employment-to-population ratio moved up. The unemployment rates for Asians, Hispanics, and whites each moved lower in September, but the rate for African Americans was unchanged; the unemployment rate for each group was below its level at the end of the previous economic expansion, though persistent differentials between these rates remained. The average share of workers employed part time for economic reasons in September continued to be below its level in late 2007. The rate of private-sector job openings declined in August, and the rate of quits also edged down, but both readings were still at relatively elevated levels. The four-week moving average of initial claims for unemployment insurance benefits through mid-October remained near historically low levels. Average hourly earnings for all employees rose 2.9 percent over the 12 months ending in September, roughly similar to the pace a year earlier.

Total consumer prices, as measured by the PCE price index, increased 1.4 percent over the 12 months ending in August. Core PCE price inflation (which excludes changes in consumer food and energy prices) was 1.8 percent over that same 12-month period, while consumer food price inflation was well below core inflation, and consumer energy prices declined. The trimmed mean measure of 12-month PCE price inflation constructed by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas remained at 2 percent in August. The consumer price index (CPI) rose 1.7 percent over the 12 months ending in September, while core CPI inflation was 2.4 percent. Recent readings on survey-based measures of longer-run inflation expectations—including those from the University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers, the Blue Chip Economic Indicators, and the Desk's Survey of Primary Dealers and Survey of Market Participants—were little changed, on balance, al­though the Michigan survey measure ticked down to the low end of its recent range.

Real PCE rose solidly in the third quarter following a stronger gain in the second quarter. Overall consumer spending rose steadily in recent months, and sales of light motor vehicles through September maintained their robust second-quarter pace. Key factors that influence consumer spending—including the low unemployment rate, further gains in real disposable income, high levels of households' net worth, and generally low borrowing rates—were supportive of solid real PCE growth in the near term. The Michigan survey measure of consumer sentiment rose again in October and had mostly recovered from its August slump, while the Conference Board survey measure of consumer confidence remained at a favorable level.

Real residential investment turned up solidly in the third quarter following six consecutive quarters of contraction. This upturn was consistent with the rise in single-family starts in the third quarter, and building permits for such units—which tend to be a good indicator for the underlying trend in the construction of such homes—also increased. Both new and existing home sales increased, on net, in August and September. Taken together, the data on construction and sales suggested that the decline in mortgage rates since late 2018 was starting to show through to housing activity.

Real nonresidential private fixed investment declined further in the third quarter. Nominal shipments of nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft decreased over August and September, and forward-looking indicators generally pointed to continued softness in business equipment spending. Orders for nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft decreased over those two months and were still below the level of shipments, most measures of business sentiment deteriorated, analysts' expectations of firms' longer-term profit growth declined somewhat further, and concerns about trade developments continued to weigh on firms' investment decisions. Business expenditures for nonresidential structures decreased markedly further in the third quarter, and the number of crude oil and natural gas rigs in operation—an indicator of business spending for structures in the drilling and mining sector—continued to decline through mid-October.

Industrial production declined in September and was notably lower than at the beginning of the year. Production in September was held down by the strike at General Motors, and automakers' schedules indicated that assemblies of light motor vehicles would remain low in October before rebounding in November. Overall manufacturing production appeared likely to remain soft in coming months, reflecting generally weak readings on new orders from national and regional manufacturing surveys, declining domestic business investment, weak GDP growth abroad, and a persistent drag from trade developments.

Total real government purchases rose at a slower pace in the third quarter than in the second quarter. Real federal purchases decelerated, reflecting smaller increases in both defense and nondefense spending. Federal hiring of temporary workers for next year's decennial census was quite modest during the quarter. Real purchases by state and local governments also rose at a slower pace, as the boost from a faster expansion in state and local payrolls was partially offset by a decrease in real construction spending by these governments.

The nominal U.S. international trade deficit widened in August, reflecting a subdued pace of export growth and a moderate pace of import growth. Export growth was subdued due to lackluster exports of services and capital goods. Advance estimates for September suggested that goods imports fell more than exports, pointing to a narrowing of the monthly trade deficit. The Bureau of Economic Analysis estimated that net exports made a slight negative contribution to real GDP growth in the third quarter.

Incoming data suggested that growth in the foreign economies remained subpar in the third quarter. In several advanced foreign economies (AFEs), indicators showed continued weakness in the manufacturing sector, especially in the euro area and the United Kingdom. Similarly, GDP growth remained subdued in China and several other emerging economies in Asia, and indicators suggested that growth in Latin America also remained weak. Foreign inflation appeared to have moderated a bit in the third quarter, reflecting declines in energy prices. Inflation remained relatively low in most foreign economies.