The projection for U.S. real GDP growth prepared by the staff for the October FOMC meeting was revised down a little for the second half of this year relative to the previous projection. This revision reflected the estimated effects of the strike at General Motors along with some other small factors. Even without this downward revision, real GDP was forecast to rise more slowly in the second half of the year than in the first half, mostly because of continued soft business investment and slower increases in government spending. The medium-term projection for real GDP growth was essentially unchanged, as revisions to the staff's assumptions about factors on which the forecast was conditioned, such as financial market variables, were small and offsetting. Real GDP was expected to decelerate modestly over the medium term, mostly because of a waning boost from fiscal policy. Output was forecast to expand at a rate a little above the staff's estimate of its potential rate of growth in 2019 and 2020 and then to slow to a pace slightly below potential output growth in 2021 and 2022. The unemployment rate was projected to be roughly flat through 2022 and to remain below the staff's estimate of its longer-run natural rate.

The staff's forecast for core PCE price inflation this year was revised down a little in response to recent data. Beyond this year, the projection for core inflation was unrevised, and the forecast for total inflation was a little lower in 2020 because of a downward revision in projected consumer energy prices. Both total inflation and core inflation were forecast to move up slightly next year, as the low inflation readings early this year were viewed as transitory; nevertheless, both inflation measures were forecast to continue to run somewhat below 2 percent through 2022.

The staff continued to view the uncertainty around its projections for real GDP growth, the unemployment rate, and inflation as generally similar to the average of the past 20 years. Moreover, the staff still judged that the risks to the forecast for real GDP growth were tilted to the downside, with a corresponding skew to the upside for the unemployment rate. Important factors in that assessment were that international trade tensions and foreign economic developments seemed more likely to move in directions that could have significant negative effects on the U.S. economy than to resolve more favorably than assumed. In addition, softness in business investment and manufacturing so far this year was seen as pointing to the possibility of a more substantial slowing in economic growth than the staff projected. The risks to the inflation projection were also viewed as having a downward skew, in part because of the downside risks to the forecast for economic activity.