Committee participants continued their discussions related to the ongoing review of the Federal Reserve's monetary policy strategy, tools, and communication practices. Staff briefings provided an assessment of a range of monetary policy tools that the Committee could employ to provide additional economic stimulus and bolster inflation outcomes, particularly in future episodes in which the policy rate would be constrained by the effective lower bound (ELB). The staff first discussed policy rate tools, focusing on three forms of forward guidance—qualitative, which provides a nonspecific indication of the expected duration of accommodation; date-based, which specifies a date beyond which accommodation could start to be reduced; and outcome-based, which ties the possible start of a reduction of accommodation to the achievement of certain macroeconomic outcomes. The briefing addressed communications challenges associated with each form of forward guidance, including the need to avoid conveying a more negative economic outlook than the FOMC expects. Nonetheless, the staff suggested that forward guidance generally had been effective in easing financial conditions and stimulating economic activity in circumstances when the policy rate was above the ELB and when it was at the ELB. The briefing also discussed negative interest rates, a policy option implemented by several foreign central banks. The staff noted that al­though the evidence so far suggested that this tool had provided accommodation in jurisdictions where it had been employed, there were also indications of possible adverse side effects. Moreover, differences between the U.S. financial system and the financial systems of those jurisdictions suggested that the foreign experience may not provide a useful guide in assessing whether negative rates would be effective in the United States.

The second part of the staff briefing focused on balance sheet policy tools. The staff discussed the benefits and costs associated with the large-scale asset purchase programs implemented by the Federal Reserve after the financial crisis. In general, the staff's review of the historical experience suggested that the benefits of large-scale asset purchase programs were significant and that many of the potential costs of such programs identified at the time either did not materialize or materialized to a smaller degree than initially feared. In addition, the staff presentation noted that—taking account of investor expectations ahead of the announcement of each new program—the effects of asset purchases did not appear to have diminished materially across consecutive programs. However, going forward, such policies might not be as effective because longer-term interest rates would likely be much lower at the onset of a future asset purchase program than they were before the financial crisis. The staff also compared the benefits and costs associated with asset purchase programs that are of a fixed cumulative size and those that are flow-based—where purchases continue at a specific pace until certain macroeconomic outcomes are achieved—and examined the potential effectiveness of using asset purchases to place ceilings on interest rates. The briefing also discussed lending programs that could facilitate the flow of credit to households or businesses.

Participants discussed the relative merits of qualitative, date-based, and outcome-based forward guidance. A number of participants noted that each of these three forms of forward guidance could be effective in providing accommodation, depending on circumstances both at and away from the ELB. They also suggested that different types of forward guidance would likely be needed to address varying economic conditions, and that the communications regarding forward guidance needed to be tailored to explain the Committee's evaluation of the economic outlook. In particular, several participants emphasized that to guard against the possibility of adverse feedback loops in which forward guidance is interpreted by the public as a sign of a sharply deteriorating economic outlook, thus leading households and businesses to become even more cautious in their spending decisions, the Committee would need to clearly communicate how its announced policy could help promote better economic outcomes. Participants saw both benefits and costs associated with outcome-based forward guidance relative to other forms of forward guidance. On the one hand, relative to qualitative or date-based forward guidance, outcome-based forward guidance has the advantage of creating an explicit link between future monetary policy actions and macroeconomic conditions, thereby helping to support economic stabilization efforts and foster transparency and accountability. On the other hand, outcome-based forward guidance could be complex and difficult to explain and, hence, could potentially be less effective than qualitative or date-based forward guidance if those hurdles could not be overcome. A few participants commented that outcome-based forward guidance, tied to inflation outcomes, could be a useful tool to reinforce the Committee's commitment to its symmetric 2 percent objective.

Participants also discussed the benefits and costs of using different types of balance sheet policy. Participants generally agreed that the balance sheet policies implemented by the Federal Reserve after the crisis had eased financial conditions and had contributed to the economic recovery, and that those tools had become an important part of the Committee's current toolkit. However, some participants pointed out that research had produced a sizable range of estimates of the magnitude of the economic effects of balance sheet actions. In addition, some participants noted that the effectiveness of these tools might be diminished in the future, as longer-term interest rates have declined to very low levels and would likely be even lower following an adverse shock that could lead to the resumption of large-scale asset purchases; as a result, there might be limited scope for balance sheet tools to provide accommodation. Several participants commented on the advantages and disadvantages of flow-based asset purchase programs tied to the achievement of economic outcomes. On the one hand, such programs adjusted automatically in response to the performance of the economy and, hence, were more straightforward to implement and communicate. On the other hand, flow-based asset purchase programs may result in the balance sheet rising to undesirable levels. A few participants also commented that, barring significant dislocations to particular segments of the markets, they would restrict asset purchases to Treasury securities to avoid perceptions that the Federal Reserve was engaging in credit allocation across sectors of the economy.

In considering policy tools that the Federal Reserve had not used in the recent past, participants discussed the benefits and costs of using balance sheet tools to cap rates on short- or long-maturity Treasury securities through open market operations as necessary. A few participants saw benefits to capping longer-term interest rates that more directly influence household and business spending. In addition, capping longer-maturity interest rates using balance sheet tools, if judged as credible by market participants, might require a smaller amount of asset purchases to provide a similar amount of accommodation as a quantity-based program purchasing longer-maturity securities. However, many participants raised concerns about capping long-term rates. Some of those participants noted that uncertainty regarding the neutral federal funds rate and regarding the effects of rate ceiling policies on future interest rates and inflation made it difficult to determine the appropriate level of the rate ceiling or when that ceiling should be removed; that maintaining a rate ceiling could result in an elevated level of the Federal Reserve's balance sheet or significant volatility in its size or maturity composition; or that managing longer-term interest rates might be seen as interacting with the federal debt management process. By contrast, a majority of participants saw greater benefits in using balance sheet tools to cap shorter-term interest rates and reinforce forward guidance about the near-term path of the policy rate.

All participants judged that negative interest rates currently did not appear to be an attractive monetary policy tool in the United States. Participants commented that there was limited scope to bring the policy rate into negative territory, that the evidence on the beneficial effects of negative interest rates abroad was mixed, and that it was unclear what effects negative rates might have on the willingness of financial intermediaries to lend and on the spending plans of households and businesses. Participants noted that negative interest rates would entail risks of introducing significant complexity or distortions to the financial system. In particular, some participants cautioned that the financial system in the United States is considerably different from those in countries that implemented negative interest rate policies, and that negative rates could have more significant adverse effects on market functioning and financial stability here than abroad. Notwithstanding these considerations, participants did not rule out the possibility that circumstances could arise in which it might be appropriate to reassess the potential role of negative interest rates as a policy tool.

Overall, participants generally agreed that the forward guidance and balance sheet policies followed by the Federal Reserve after the financial crisis had been effective in providing stimulus at the ELB. With estimates of equilibrium real interest rates having declined notably over recent decades, policymakers saw less room to reduce the federal funds rate to support the economy in the event of a downturn. In addition, against a background of inflation undershooting the symmetric 2 percent objective for several years, some participants raised the concern that the scope to reduce the federal funds rate to provide support to economic activity in future recessions could be reduced further if inflation shortfalls continued and led to a decline in inflation expectations. Therefore, participants generally agreed it was important for the Committee to keep a wide range of tools available and employ them as appropriate to support the economy. Doing so would help ensure the anchoring of inflation expectations at a level consistent with the Committee's symmetric 2 percent inflation objective.

Some participants noted that the form of the policy response would depend critically on the circumstances the Committee faced at the time. Several participants suggested that communicating to the public clearly and convincingly in advance about how the Committee intended to provide accommodation at the ELB would enhance public confidence and support the effectiveness of whichever tool the Committee selected. Some participants thought it would be helpful for the Committee to evaluate how its tools could be utilized in different economic scenarios, such as when longer-term interest rates were significantly below current levels, and discuss which actions would best address the challenges posed by each scenario. Several participants noted that, particularly if monetary policy became severely constrained at the ELB, expansionary fiscal policy would be especially important in addressing an economic downturn.

Participants expected that, at upcoming meetings, they would continue their deliberations on the Committee's review of the monetary policy framework as well as the Committee's Statement on Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy. They also generally agreed that the Committee's consideration of possible modifications to its policy strategy, tools, and communication practices would take some time and that the process would be careful, deliberate, and patient. A number of participants judged that the review could be completed around the middle of 2020.