The information available for the January 28–29 meeting indicated that labor market conditions remained strong and that real gross domestic product (GDP) increased at a moderate rate in the fourth quarter of 2019. Consumer price inflation, as measured by the 12‑month percentage change in the price index for personal consumption expenditures (PCE), remained below 2 percent in November. Survey-based measures of longer-run inflation expectations were little changed.

Total nonfarm payroll employment rose in December, and the solid pace of job gains over the second half of 2019 was somewhat above that for the first half. However, the rate of increase in payrolls in 2019 was slower than in 2018, whether or not one accounted for the anticipated effects of the Bureau of Labor Statistics' benchmark revision to payroll employment, which was scheduled for early February. The unemployment rate held steady at its 50‑year low of 3.5 percent in December, and the labor force participation rate and the employment-to-population ratio were unchanged as well. The unemployment rates for African Americans, Asians, Hispanics, and whites were below their levels at the end of the previous economic expansion. Although persistent differentials between these rates remained, they have generally narrowed during the expansion. The average share of workers employed part time for economic reasons in November stayed below its level in late 2007. The rate of private-sector job openings declined, on net, in October and November but was still at a fairly high level; the rate of quits, which was also at a high level, edged up. The four-week moving average of initial claims for unemployment insurance benefits through mid-January remained near historically low levels. Nominal wage growth was moderate, with average hourly earnings for all employees increasing 2.9 percent over the 12 months ending in December.

Total consumer prices, as measured by the PCE price index, increased 1.5 percent over the 12 months ending in November. Core PCE price inflation (which excludes changes in consumer food and energy prices) was 1.6 percent over that same 12-month period. Consumer food price inflation was lower than core inflation, and consumer energy prices declined. The trimmed mean measure of 12-month PCE price inflation constructed by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas remained at 2 percent in November. The consumer price index (CPI) and the core CPI both rose 2.3 percent over the 12 months ending in December. Recent readings on survey-based measures of longer-run inflation expectations were little changed, on balance, in recent months. The University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers' measure for the next 5 to 10 years moved back up in early January after having fallen to its lowest value on record in December. Meanwhile, the 3-year-ahead measure from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York's Survey of Consumer Expectations remained near its historical low in December.

Real PCE appeared to have risen more slowly in the fourth quarter than in the third quarter. Retail sales were soft during the fourth quarter, and sales of light motor vehicles declined in December after a strong gain in November. However, key factors that influence consumer spending—including the low unemployment rate, the upward trend in real disposable income, high levels of households' net worth, and generally low interest rates—remained supportive of solid real PCE growth in the near term. In addition, recent readings on consumer confidence from both the University of Michigan and the Conference Board surveys were strong.

Real residential investment appeared to have increased solidly again in the fourth quarter. Starts for single-family homes increased sharply over the November and December period, building permit issuance for such homes rose on net, and starts of multifamily units also moved up. Existing home sales increased, on balance, in November and December, while new home sales declined. All told, the data on residential construction and sales continued to suggest that the decline in mortgage rates since late 2018 had been boosting housing activity.

The available data pointed to another decline in real nonresidential private fixed investment in the fourth quarter, with a further contraction in structures investment more than offsetting a modest rise in investment in equipment and intangibles. Nominal shipments and new orders of nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft were little changed in the fourth quarter. Although some measures of business sentiment improved, analysts' expectations of firms' longer-term profit growth edged down further, concerns about trade developments continued to weigh on firms' investment decisions, and reduced deliveries of the Boeing 737 Max were likely restraining investment. Nominal business expenditures for nonresidential structures outside of the drilling and mining sector continued to decline in November. The total number of crude oil and natural gas rigs in operation—an indicator of business spending for structures in the drilling and mining sector—was little changed, on net, through mid-January, though still below levels seen over the latter part of 2019.

Industrial production (IP) increased, on net, in November and December, partly because of a pickup in motor vehicle production following the strike at General Motors. Even so, IP was lower than a year earlier, with declines in manufacturing production and the output of utilities only partly offset by an increase in mining output. Automakers' schedules suggested that assemblies of light motor vehicles would increase in the first quarter, but that gain appeared likely to be offset by Boeing's curtailed production of the 737 Max aircraft and, more generally, by mixed readings on new orders from national and regional manufacturing surveys.

Total real government purchases appeared to have increased moderately in the fourth quarter. Nominal defense spending in November and December pointed to only a moderate rise in real federal government purchases. Real purchases by state and local governments looked to have risen a little faster than in the third quarter; nominal construction spending by these governments increased solidly in November, and state and local payrolls expanded modestly in December.

Real net exports were estimated to have provided a substantial boost to real GDP growth in the fourth quarter. Available monthly data suggested that imports fell significantly, led by declines in consumer goods and automobiles, while exports were about flat.

Incoming data suggested that foreign economic growth slowed further in the fourth quarter to a very subdued pace. In the advanced foreign economies (AFEs), growth appeared to have remained weak as the manufacturing slump continued and a consumption tax hike in Japan led to a sharp contraction in household spending. In the emerging economies, social unrest weighed heavily on economic activity in Hong Kong and Chile, while the labor strike at General Motors was a further drag on Mexico's already weak economy. In contrast, early GDP releases showed a pickup in growth in China and some other Asian economies, though news of the coronavirus outbreak raised questions about the sustainability of that pickup. Foreign inflation rose in the wake of temporary factors in India and China, while it remained soft in most AFEs, in part reflecting previous declines in energy prices and muted core inflation pressures.