In conjunction with this FOMC meeting, 18 participants submitted projections of the most likely outcomes for real GDP growth, the unemployment rate, and inflation. One participant submitted projections through 2027 and over the longer run, while the others submitted through 2029 and over the longer run. The projections were based on participants' individual assessments of appropriate monetary policy, including their projections of the federal funds rate. Participants who submitted projections also provided their individual assessments of the level of uncertainty and the balance of risks associated with their projections. The Summary of Economic Projections was released to the public following the conclusion of the meeting.

Participants noted that inflation remained elevated and that they had not seen sufficient progress on lowering inflation in recent months. They noted that ongoing geopolitical developments, which had pushed up prices for crude oil and refined fuel products, and surging AI-related investments were contributing to inflation pressures. Several participants observed that the rate of price increases in core services excluding housing remained elevated. Several participants observed that the rate of price increases in the core goods category also remained elevated, as effects of the AI buildout appeared to increase while the effects of tariff increases waned. A few participants noted that certain items in the PCE price index—software and portfolio management fees in particular—had made relatively large contributions to recent PCE inflation readings, and that those contributions would likely be reduced somewhat with the upcoming changes to the BEA's methodology. Some participants noted that, according to various modeling approaches, underlying inflation appeared to be above the Committee's 2 percent objective and to have moved sideways in recent months. A few participants observed that the 3-month change measure of core PCE inflation showed a material decline since the start of the year but cautioned that this measure is more volatile than the 12-month change measure and has shown a strong tendency to understate inflation in the second half of the year compared with the first half.

Participants judged that market- and survey-based indicators of medium- and longer-term inflation expectations remained at levels consistent with the Committee's 2 percent objective. Several participants noted that market- and survey-based measures of short-term inflation expectations were elevated.

Participants generally expected that inflation would remain elevated in the near term and then decline toward 2 percent over the medium term under appropriate monetary policy. Some participants commented that increased energy prices and the ongoing AI buildout were contributing to cost pressures faced by businesses, including higher costs for transportation and input materials. Many participants cited their business contacts and business surveys as reporting increased cost pressures. Some participants noted that businesses appeared to have been more successful in passing cost increases through to consumers. Participants generally assessed inflation risk as skewed to the upside; some participants remarked that those risks had become more skewed to the upside in recent months. Many participants assessed that the longer energy prices remained elevated, the greater the risk that cost increases in certain sectors could lead to broader price pressures. Some participants commented that the AI buildout could cause aggregate demand to outpace aggregate supply over the medium term, putting upward pressure on inflation. Several participants noted that the possibility of further tariff increases was also an upside risk to inflation. Some participants expressed concerns that, after more than five years of inflation above 2 percent, elevated inflation rates could begin to affect inflation expectations and wage- and price-setting decisions.

Participants judged that labor market conditions were stable and generally viewed the labor market as close to maximum employment. A majority of participants assessed that the labor market had strengthened a bit recently, pointing to developments such as employment gains modestly outpacing labor force growth. Several participants noted that dynamism in the labor market was unusually low, as reflected by low rates of hiring and layoffs, a low job-finding rate, and a persistently elevated long-term unemployment rate. Some participants observed that strong demand for skilled workers in sectors related to the ongoing AI buildout had been driving strong wage gains for these workers. However, some participants also commented that aggregate wage growth was moderate and consistent with inflation moving toward 2 percent, or that the labor market was not currently a source of inflationary pressures.

Participants generally expected labor market conditions to remain stable, with the unemployment rate staying close to current levels. Participants generally viewed the upside and downside risks to the labor market as broadly balanced.

Participants also discussed developments related to financial conditions. A few participants discussed the potential factors behind the recent rise in longer-term Treasury yields, such as incoming data that pointed to a stronger economy, increased expectations for AI-related borrowing, and geopolitical developments. Many participants commented that, despite the recent rise in longer-term Treasury yields, financial conditions appeared to be supportive of economic growth, with equity prices having risen substantially this year and spreads on corporate bonds having remained narrow. Several participants noted that credit appeared broadly available, pointing to the level of new financing in the economy, robust issuance volumes in corporate loan and bond markets, or easier bank lending standards. A few participants commented that housing was a sector in which financial conditions did not appear supportive of activity, with mortgage rates remaining at elevated levels.

Participants generally assessed that economic activity was expanding at a solid pace. Robust business investment and resilient consumer spending had supported economic activity, even as adverse supply shocks from geopolitical developments had intensified. Several participants commented that the underlying momentum in the economy appeared to have increased. Participants noted that the ongoing AI buildout was boosting business investment. Several participants commented that the scale and pace of the AI buildout had continued to surprise to the upside. Several participants noted that business activity had also been supported by factors such as the high level of corporate earnings, less restrictive regulations, and tariff refunds. Regarding the agricultural sector, a couple of participants observed that conditions in that sector, especially the crop sector, had been strained because of worsening drought and higher prices for diesel and other inputs. Participants observed that consumer spending had been solid. Several participants observed that stock market gains had provided support to consumer spending, particularly among higher-income households. Several participants noted, however, that low- and moderate-income households faced strains, with higher energy prices weighing disproportionately on their real disposable income.

Participants discussed recent estimates of trend productivity and the outlook for productivity growth. Participants generally regarded the trend productivity growth rate as currently about in line with the historical average and somewhat higher than pre-pandemic levels. A couple of participants noted the difficulty of detecting a potential change in trend productivity in real time. Participants generally judged that AI-related investments would likely contribute to stronger gains in productivity and potential output in the coming years but they noted that there was substantial uncertainty over the magnitude or timing of the effects. A few participants flagged emerging concerns regarding potential repercussions associated with rapid adoption of AI, including cybersecurity and other risks, that could act as a drag on productivity in some cases.

In their consideration of monetary policy at this meeting, all participants supported raising the target range for the federal funds rate 1/4 percentage point to 3-3/4 to 4 percent. Participants generally emphasized that inflation remained elevated while the labor market appeared to be near full employment, with some signs of strengthening, and that economic activity was expanding at a solid pace. Furthermore, almost all participants assessed that, while inflation risks were tilted to the upside, risks to the labor market had diminished and were now broadly balanced. Based on the outlook and the changing balance of risks, all participants viewed a higher target range for the federal funds rate as appropriate. Participants judged that this would support a timelier return of inflation to the Committee's 2 percent goal. Many participants emphasized that a higher path for the target range would be prudent on risk-management grounds, providing insurance against inflation remaining persistently above target due to stronger-than-expected demand or further adverse supply shocks. A number of participants viewed a higher path for the target range as necessary based on their modal outlooks rather than on risk-management grounds. Some participants remarked that a higher policy rate would diminish the risk of persistently elevated inflation unanchoring inflation expectations and becoming further entrenched. A couple of participants emphasized that a higher policy rate would help prevent sector-specific price increases stemming from energy market disruptions and AI-related demand from broadening out and generating more persistent inflation dynamics. A couple of participants remarked on having increased their estimate of the neutral federal funds rate and thus their view of the appropriate setting of the target range for the federal funds rate. Several participants stated that they viewed the current policy rate as not restrictive or only mildly restrictive.

With regard to the outlook for monetary policy beyond the current meeting, most participants assessed that another increase in the target range for the federal funds rate would likely be appropriate by year end. Participants emphasized, however, that they approached each meeting with an open mind and decisions at future meetings would depend on incoming information and its implications for the outlook and the balance of risks.

Regarding balance sheet policy, a few participants observed that Treasury markets had been functioning smoothly but noted the importance of planning for market stress. They suggested strengthening the Federal Reserve's strategy, communications, and tools for addressing market dysfunction, should it occur, while limiting the Federal Reserve's footprint in the Treasury market.