Over the intermeeting period, both the market-implied expected path of the federal funds rate and nominal Treasury yields increased notably, driven largely by news about geopolitical developments and FOMC-related communications amid a still-resilient economic outlook. Market-implied measures of volatility of longer-term interest rates increased somewhat on net. Changes in inflation compensation accounted for most of the net increase in shorter-maturity Treasury yields, while changes in real rates contributed to most of the net increase in longer-maturity Treasury yields. Despite increasing across all maturities, inflation compensation remained consistent with expectations that PCE inflation will return to 2 percent.

Broad equity price indexes increased somewhat, on net, supported by robust corporate earnings that were bolstered by the AI buildout. Investor equity risk sentiment improved, as the one-month option-implied volatility of the S&P 500 index decreased a touch and ended the period near the median of its historical distribution.

Market-based expectations for monetary policy rates in major advanced foreign economies (AFEs) moved up notably as global energy prices increased. Longer-term bond yields also increased in AFEs, albeit to a lesser extent. The broad dollar index declined moderately, primarily reflecting larger increases in short-term interest rates abroad than in the U.S. Changes in foreign equity price indexes were mixed, with modest declines in some markets and gains in those linked to the AI buildout.

Conditions in U.S. short-term funding markets remained stable. In secured markets, the Tri-Party General Collateral Rate averaged 3 basis points below the IORB rate, as markets absorbed sizable net Treasury bill issuance over the period without significant pressure on secured rates. In unsecured funding markets, the EFFR averaged 2 basis points below the IORB rate.

Financing conditions in domestic credit markets remained generally accommodative for larger businesses and municipalities but were somewhat restrictive for residential mortgage borrowers and small businesses. Borrowing costs increased moderately in most sectors. Yields on investment- and speculative-grade corporate bonds increased mostly in line with Treasury yields, as spreads narrowed modestly. Spreads for corporate bonds issued by AI hyperscalers decreased slightly over the period after widening notably from low levels at the start of the year. Residential mortgage rates increased a bit more than 10-year Treasury yields. Outside of residential mortgages, consumer credit borrowing costs were little changed over the intermeeting period.

Credit continued to be generally available to most households and businesses, though it appeared to be somewhat tight for private credit loans and small businesses. Bank lending continued to expand, while corporate bond issuance remained robust, even beyond the recent notable activity of AI hyperscalers. In the private credit market, direct lending issuance slowed in July amid subdued retail interest but resilient institutional demand. Regarding households, borrowing for home purchases remained depressed, although total home equity borrowing stayed near pre-pandemic levels. Consumer credit remained generally available to most households, as credit card balances grew moderately in the second quarter and average credit card limits continued to increase. Issuance of municipal bonds remained strong.