The information available at the time of the meeting indicated that inflation remained elevated. Labor market conditions continued to be broadly stable with some signs of gradual tightening. Real gross domestic product (GDP) was expanding at a solid pace.

Based on data from the consumer and producer price indexes, the staff estimated that price inflation—as measured by the 12-month change in the price index for total personal consumption expenditures (PCE)—edged up to 3.8 percent in August, led by a pickup in consumer energy prices after they had declined during the previous two months. Core PCE price inflation, which excludes changes in consumer energy prices and many consumer food prices, was estimated to have remained at 3.4 percent in August. Both total and core inflation were higher than their levels from a year earlier, a development the staff attributed mostly to the effects of past tariff increases, higher energy and input costs stemming from geopolitical developments, and an increase in technology-related consumer goods prices associated with the AI buildout. Under the new methodology that the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) had announced would be implemented at the end of September, the staff estimated that total inflation would be 3.6 percent in August, with core inflation at 3.2 percent.

The unemployment rate moved down to 4.1 percent in July and August, 0.3 percentage point lower than its average in the second half of last year. Moreover, the labor force participation rate stepped back up in August following the unusually low readings in the previous couple of months. The pace of nonfarm payroll employment gains picked up notably in August, reflecting increases across a range of industries. The 12-month change in the employment cost index for private-sector workers was 3.3 percent through June, and average hourly earnings increased 3.1 percent over the 12 months ending in August. Both measures of labor cost growth were below their year-earlier levels.

Available indicators suggested that real GDP growth was solid over the first half of this year, about the same as last year's pace. Moreover, real private domestic final purchases—which comprises PCE and private fixed investment and often provides a better signal of underlying economic momentum than does real GDP—appeared to have picked up notably in the first half and to have been rising faster than GDP. Consumer spending growth had firmed, and the AI buildout continued to support robust increases in business investment spending. The AI buildout also fueled strong imports of high-tech capital goods, while real energy exports rose to record highs in the second quarter amid disruptions to oil shipments from the Middle East.

Economic growth abroad stepped up in the second quarter, as most foreign economies continued to demonstrate resilience despite heightened geopolitical tensions and elevated energy prices. Manufacturing activity expanded at a solid pace, supported in part by strong global demand for high-tech goods related to the AI buildout. By contrast, indicators of economic activity in China through August suggested that the country's domestic demand growth remained weak.

Total inflation abroad remained above central banks' target levels in many foreign economies, reflecting higher consumer energy and food prices due to disruptions stemming from geopolitical developments. With elevated inflation and economic growth proving more resilient than expected, most foreign central banks remained focused on inflation risks. The European Central Bank raised its policy rate, citing continued inflationary pressures from the Middle East conflict.