In support of the Committee's dual-mandate goals, all members agreed to raise the target range for the federal funds rate 1/4 percentage point to 3-3/4 to 4 percent and reaffirmed the FOMC's policy of maintaining ample reserves in the banking system. Members noted that the unemployment rate was largely unchanged and that solid growth in economic activity had continued amid resilient domestic spending, while inflation remained elevated relative to the Committee's 2 percent goal. The Committee underlined its continuing resolve to achieve its dual-mandate goals by indicating in its postmeeting statement that it "will deliver price stability." Members agreed that the policy action taken would support a timelier return of inflation to the Committee's 2 percent goal.

At the conclusion of the discussion, the Committee voted to direct the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, until instructed otherwise, to execute transactions in the System Open Market Account in accordance with the following domestic policy directive, for release at 2:00 p.m.:

"Effective September 17, 2026, the Federal Open Market Committee directs the Desk to: Undertake open market operations as necessary to maintain the federal funds rate in a target range of 3-3/4 to 4 percent. Conduct standing overnight repurchase agreement operations at a rate of 4.0 percent. Conduct standing overnight reverse repurchase agreement operations at an offering rate of 3.75 percent and with a per-counterparty limit of $160 billion per day. When appropriate, increase the System Open Market Account holdings of securities through purchases of Treasury bills and, if needed, other Treasury securities with remaining maturities of 3 years or less to maintain an ample level of reserves. Roll over at auction all principal payments from the Federal Reserve's holdings of Treasury securities. Reinvest all principal payments from the Federal Reserve's holdings of agency securities into Treasury bills."

The vote also encompassed approval of the statement below for release at 2:00 p.m.:

"The Federal Open Market Committee approved the following statement for release by a 12–0 vote: The Committee decided to raise the target range for the federal funds rate by 1/4 percentage point to 3-3/4 to 4 percent, in support of the Federal Reserve's dual mandate. The Committee is continuing its policy of maintaining ample reserves in the banking system. Economic activity is expanding at a solid pace. While uncertainty remains elevated owing, in part, to geopolitical developments, domestic spending has been resilient. Productivity growth is strong, and capital investment is robust. Job gains have kept pace with the workforce, and the unemployment rate has changed little. Inflation remains elevated. Today's policy action will support a timelier return to the Committee's 2 percent goal. The Committee will deliver price stability."