The manager started with an overview of developments in financial markets over the intermeeting period. Asset prices were affected by economic data that pointed to a resilient economy with persistent inflation, an escalation of geopolitical tensions that pushed up energy prices, and policy communications. The market-implied policy path, Treasury yields, near-term inflation compensation, and equity prices all increased, and the dollar depreciated.

Regarding expectations for U.S. monetary policy, the manager noted that the market-implied path for monetary policy had risen notably over the intermeeting period and that both market prices and market outreach indicated that investors placed high odds on a 25 basis point increase in the target range for the federal funds rate at the September meeting. Responses to the Open Market Desk Survey of Market Expectations (Desk survey) also indicated that a considerable probability was placed on at least 25 basis points of policy firming by the end of the year. The shift in expectations was attributable in part to FOMC communications as well as to the incoming inflation data. The manager also observed that considerable uncertainty remained about the path of policy at longer horizons.

The manager turned next to the Treasury market. Nominal yields increased around 35 basis points across the 2- to 10-year segment of the yield curve. Part of the increase reflected the higher expected path of monetary policy and the strength of economic data. Market commentary pointed to geopolitical developments, uncertainty related to the U.S. Treasury's announcement and implementation of the buyback program, and competition for capital from heavy private debt issuance to finance the development of artificial intelligence (AI) infrastructure as also contributing to higher term premiums and Treasury yields.

Near-term inflation compensation rose over the intermeeting period, largely reflecting movements in oil prices. Both market- and survey-based measures of longer-term inflation expectations remained stable at levels consistent with the Committee's 2 percent longer-run inflation objective.

Turning to credit and equity markets, the manager observed that yield spreads on hyperscaler debt used to finance AI infrastructure remained wide, given the large volume of issuance and the relatively long duration of the securities being issued. On net, equity market prices moved up modestly over the intermeeting period, with companies that directly benefit from investment in AI infrastructure outperforming the rest of the market. The manager noted that the rise in equity prices this year was entirely attributable to strong actual and expected corporate earnings, while price-to-earnings multiples had declined.

The trade-weighted dollar depreciated against the currencies of major foreign economies, reflecting narrowing interest rate differentials and improving foreign growth. The joint U.S.–Japan intervention to support the yen in late July also directly contributed to dollar depreciation, given the yen's considerable weight in currency indexes. The manager noted that the Desk, acting purely as fiscal agent for the U.S. Treasury, intervened in the currency market using U.S. Treasury funds; the System Open Market Account portfolio was not involved.

When reviewing money markets, the manager observed that conditions had remained stable over the intermeeting period, with the effective federal funds rate (EFFR) steady relative to the interest on reserve balances (IORB) rate and with repurchase agreement (repo) rates trading just below that level on average. Reduced dealer demand for repo financing, tied to lower securities inventories, contributed to softer repo rates. A substantial increase in Treasury bill issuance since July had been absorbed well, with limited effect on money market rates.

The manager noted that the level of reserve balances in the system appeared to remain within a range consistent with an ample supply. Reflecting money market conditions, the Desk's forecast for reserve supply, and its assessment of reserve demand, the Desk had paused reserve management purchases (RMPs). The manager noted that the pace of RMPs was not on a preset course and that the Desk would continue to make decisions each month with the goal of keeping reserves within the ample range.

By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Desk's domestic transactions over the intermeeting period. There were no intervention operations in foreign currencies for the System's account during the intermeeting period.