On September 13, 2001, the Committee met by telephone conference to assess economic and financial developments stemming from the terrorist attacks on September 11 and the possible need for a monetary policy response. Banking and other financial market conditions, notably in New York City but also around the nation, were discussed in some detail as well as the outlook for reopening the stock exchanges. While the ongoing reactions to the recent tragedy were undoubtedly a negative factor in the economic outlook, the members agreed that financial markets were still too disrupted and the economic outlook too uncertain to provide an adequate basis for a policy move at this time. However, the members contemplated the need for some policy easing in the very near future. In the interim, the System would continue to stand ready to provide whatever liquidity might be needed to counter unusual strains and help assure the effective functioning of the banking system and restore more normal conditions in financial markets.

Subsequently, on September 17, 2001, the Committee members voted unanimously to ease reserve conditions appreciably further, consistent with a reduction in the federal funds rate of 50 basis points to a level of 3 percent. This policy action was associated with the approval by the Board of Governors of a reduction of equal size in the discount rate to a level of 2-1/2 percent. These actions were taken against the backdrop of heightened concerns and uncertainty created by the recent terrorist attacks and their potentially adverse effects on asset prices and the performance of the economy. In conjunction with these policy moves, the Federal Reserve would continue to supply, as needed, an atypically large volume of liquidity to the financial system. As a consequence, the Committee recognized that the federal funds rate might fall below its target on occasion until more normal conditions were restored in the functioning of the financial system. The Committee's vote encompassed the retention of a statement in its press release indicating that the balance of risks remained weighted toward weakness for the foreseeable future.