The manager of the System Open Market Account (SOMA) reviewed recent developments in domestic and global financial markets. The equity market was quite volatile over the intermeeting period, with U.S. stock prices down as much as 10 percent at one point before recovering somewhat. Investors pointed to a number of uncertainties in the global outlook that may have contributed to the decline in stock prices, including ongoing trade tensions between the United States and China, growing concerns about the fiscal position of the Italian government and its broader implications for financial markets and institutions, and some worries about the outcome of the Brexit negotiations. Market contacts also noted some nervousness about corporate earnings growth and an increase in longer-term Treasury yields over recent weeks as factors contributing to downward pressure on equity prices. The volatility in equity markets was accompanied by a rise in risk spreads on corporate debt, although the widening in risk spreads was not as notable as in some past stock market downturns.

On balance, the turbulence in equity markets did not leave much imprint on near-term U.S. monetary policy expectations. Respondents to the Open Market Desk's recent Survey of Primary Dealers and Survey of Market Participants indicated that respondents placed high odds on a further quarter-point increase in the target range for the federal funds rate at the December FOMC meeting; that expectation also seemed to be embedded in federal funds futures quotes. Further out, the median of survey respondents' modal expectations for the path of the federal funds rate pointed to about three additional policy firmings next year while futures quotes appeared to be pricing in a somewhat flatter trajectory.

The manager also reviewed recent developments in global markets. In China, investors were concerned about the apparent slowing of economic expansion and the implications of continued trade tensions with the United States. Chinese stock price indexes declined further over the intermeeting period and were off nearly 20 percent on the year to date. The renminbi continued to depreciate, moving closer to 7.0 renminbi per dollar--a level that some market participants viewed as a possible trigger for intensifying depreciation pressures. Anecdotal reports suggested that Chinese authorities had intervened to support the renminbi.

The deputy manager followed with a discussion of recent developments in money markets and Desk operations. The EFFR along with other overnight rates edged higher over the weeks following the increase in the target range at the previous meeting. Most recently, the EFFR had risen to the level of the IOER rate, placing it 5 basis points below the top of the target range. The upward pressure on the EFFR and other money market rates reportedly stemmed partly from a sizable increase in Treasury bill supply and a corresponding increase in Treasury bill yields. In part reflecting that development, FHLBs shifted the composition of their liquidity portfolios away from overnight lending in the federal funds market in favor of the higher returns on overnight repurchase agreements and on interest-bearing deposit accounts at banks; these reallocations in their liquidity portfolios in turn contributed to upward pressure on the EFFR. At the same time, anecdotal reports suggested that some depositories were seeking to increase their borrowing in federal funds from FHLBs, partly because of the favorable treatment of such borrowing under liquidity regulations. In addition, rates on term borrowing had moved higher over recent weeks, perhaps encouraging some depositories to bid up rates on overnight federal funds loans. To date, there were no clear signs that the ongoing decline in reserve balances in the banking system associated with the gradual normalization of the Federal Reserve's balance sheet had contributed meaningfully to the upward pressure on money market rates. Indeed, banks reportedly were willing to reduce reserve holdings in order to lend in overnight repurchase agreement (repo) markets at rates just a few basis points above the IOER rate.

However, respondents to the Desk's recent Survey of Primary Dealers and Survey of Market Participants indicated that they anticipated the reduction in the supply of reserves in the banking system could become a very important factor influencing the spread between the IOER rate and the EFFR over the last three quarters of next year. The deputy manager also provided an update on plans to incorporate additional data on overnight deposits in the OBFR. Banks had begun reporting new data on onshore overnight deposits in October. In aggregate, the volumes reported in onshore overnight deposits were substantial and the rates reported for these instruments were very close to rates reported on overnight Eurodollar transactions. The new data were expected to be incorporated in the calculation of the OBFR later next year.

Following the Desk briefings, the Chairman noted the upward trend in the EFFR relative to the IOER rate over the intermeeting period and suggested that it might be appropriate to implement another technical adjustment in the IOER rate relative to the top of the target range for the federal funds rate fairly soon. While the funds rate seemed to have stabilized recently, there remained some risk that it could continue to drift higher before the Committee's next meeting. As a contingency plan, participants agreed that it would be appropriate for the Board to implement such a technical adjustment in the IOER rate before the December meeting if necessary to keep the federal funds rate well within the target range established by the FOMC.

By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Desk's domestic transactions over the intermeeting period. There were no intervention operations in foreign currencies for the System's account during the intermeeting period.