In the Committee's discussion of current and prospective economic developments, the members focused on the shock to consumer and business confidence occasioned by the events of September 11 and the adverse repercussions on an already weak economy. The economy appeared to have been growing very little, if at all, prior to the terrorist attacks, and the dislocations arising from the latter seemed to have induced a downturn in overall economic activity against the backdrop of heightened anxiety and uncertainty about economic prospects and a sharp drop, at least initially, in stock prices after the equity markets reopened on September 17. Looking ahead, the members generally saw a relatively mild and short contraction followed by a gradual recovery next year as a plausible forecast but one that was subject to an unusually wide range of uncertainty, notably in the direction of a potentially much weaker outcome in the nearer term. In the short period since the attacks, anecdotal reports provided indications of a rebound from the sharp cutback in spending that characterized the immediate aftermath of those tragic events, but on balance business activity seemed to be in the process of moving lower. It was especially difficult to assess the outlook for consumer sentiment and spending in the period immediately ahead, which likely would depend to an important extent on the progress of the war against terrorism and reactions to any further terrorist activities. One risk bearing on that outlook was the possibility that prices in equity markets might continue to decline and perhaps even overadjust to lower earnings expectations. The confluence of worldwide economic weakness added to current uncertainties and concerns. In these circumstances a substantial further drop in consumer and business confidence and spending could not be ruled out.

The members nonetheless saw favorable prospects for an upturn in business activity next year, though the recovery clearly would be more delayed than they had anticipated before September 11. Major reasons for optimism about the outlook were the substantial easing in monetary policy, whose lagged effects would be felt increasingly in the year ahead, and the fiscal stimulus measures that already had been enacted and might well be supplemented over coming months. Other supportive elements included a likely rebound in business high-tech investment after its sharp retrenchment and a gradual turnaround in inventory investment as stocks became better aligned with expected sales. A sound banking system and low inflation were seen as sources of underlying strength in the economy that would contribute to the eventual pickup in economic activity. Even with a rebound in activity next year, however, consumer price inflation appeared likely to remain subdued or perhaps trend a bit lower in association with reduced pressures on labor and other resources and declining energy prices.

The Committee's review of recent and prospective developments in key sectors of the economy underscored the uncertainty that surrounded the overall economic outlook. The major question at this point was the extent to which the recent tragedies would continue to weigh on consumer spending and business investment. In the consumer sector, spending had with some exceptions held up well through late summer, but confidence had begun to deteriorate even before September 11. A factor that seemed to be exerting an increasingly depressing effect on consumer attitudes was the persisting stream of worker layoffs and rising unemployment. The adverse wealth effects stemming from the cumulative declines in stock market prices were a further negative, though one that had been cushioned by continued increases in the value of real estate. Retail sales along with expenditures associated with travel-related services had fallen dramatically in the immediate aftermath of the terrorist attacks. Very recent anecdotal reports suggested some improvement in consumer spending, though not a total recovery, with mixed indications ranging from a rebound to levels near pre-attack norms to still relatively depressed activity. Looking ahead, many retailer contacts anticipated sluggish sales over coming months. There were no historical precedents for judging the likely effects on consumer confidence and spending of the unique recent events, though it seemed likely that prospects for added job losses and the decline in equity wealth already experienced would hold down consumer expenditures over the months ahead. Even so, the members did not rule out a stronger-than-anticipated pickup later, depending in part on the size of additional fiscal policy actions.

Housing demand had remained at a relatively elevated level across much of the nation, though signs of some softening were apparent prior to September 11, especially in the high-priced segment of the housing market. The near-term outlook suggested some further waning in housing demand in association with the prospective weakness in employment and income. Some members noted in this regard that they sensed growing caution among homebuilders. However, the outlook for housing activity over the intermediate to longer term remained fairly promising against the backdrop of relatively low mortgage interest rates and a prospective recovery in overall economic activity that would foster rising employment and incomes.

The events of September 11 produced a marked increase in uncertainty and anxiety among contacts in the business sector. Spending for equipment and software and for commercial structures had been declining sharply through the summer, with only a few tentative signs that the pace of decline might be about to ebb. According to contacts, intensified concerns about prospects for sales and profits were depressing investment further by fostering an increasingly widespread wait-and-see attitude about undertaking new investment expenditures. While nationwide statistics on expenditures in the period since the terrorist attacks were not yet available, anecdotal reports pointed to especially large cutbacks in planned spending for commercial aircraft and rental cars stemming from the sudden and sharp deterioration of activity in the travel and tourist industries. Reports from banking contacts also indicated a substantial drop in demand for business loans that was attributed in part to the diminished willingness of small businesses in particular to undertake new investments in capital equipment and other production facilities. More generally, the increase in uncertainty and the decline in business confidence and corporate profits along with the currently high levels of excess capacity in many industries pointed to the persistence of poor prospects for capital spending over the short to intermediate term, with declines in outlays for high-tech products expected to remain especially pronounced. Looking further ahead, however, a robust upturn in business capital spending was still a probable outcome. Businesses likely would respond to profit opportunities stemming not only from rising demand resulting in part from fiscal and monetary stimulus but also from ongoing technological improvements and the need for new capital equipment as the process of retrenchment from earlier overinvestments was completed.

With a few short-lived exceptions, production on the whole had not been directly disrupted by the effects of the terrorist attacks. Consequently, some unintended accumulation of inventories probably had occurred as a result of sizable and unanticipated declines in the demand for many products. Even so, the pronounced downtrend in overall inventory spending appeared to be continuing, and with many business firms evidently still trying to liquidate what they viewed as excessive stocks, the inventory adjustment process was likely to persist for some time. Nonetheless, as progress was made in reducing unwanted stocks, the rate of inventory liquidation would diminish and an eventual turn toward accumulation would emerge, with positive implications for economic activity. Indeed, this buildup could be larger than previously anticipated if businesses now felt the need to hold larger stocks against the contingency of supply-chain slowdowns and disruptions.

The members saw the international sector as contributing to weakness in the domestic economy, especially over the nearer term. Downshifts in the U.S. economy were reinforcing more sluggish performance in many foreign economies, which in association with continued firmness in the dollar was in turn depressing the outlook for U.S. exports to those countries. In this regard, several members cited anecdotal evidence of flagging foreign markets for a variety of U.S. products. On the positive side, weakness in world demand for oil was fostering a significant downtrend in energy prices, albeit with adverse effects on energy producers in this country and abroad.

Members viewed the outlook for inflation as favorable. Expectations of greater and longer-lasting slack in labor and product markets than anticipated earlier had led to downward revisions to forecasts of wage and price inflation. This outlook was abetted by substantial declines in oil and other commodity prices. On the negative side, increases in spending on insurance and security and continued upward pressure on costs in the healthcare industry likely would impinge on business margins, limiting the downward adjustment of inflation.

In the discussion of policy for the intermeeting period ahead, all the members endorsed a proposal calling for some further easing of reserve conditions consistent with a 50 basis point reduction in the federal funds rate to a level of 2-1/2 percent. While monetary policy had already been eased substantially this year, the increased evidence of a faltering economy and the decidedly downside risks in the outlook called for a further move at this meeting. Easing would help limit the extent of the downturn and later provide impetus to the eventual upturn in economic activity. Further vigorous easing action would tend to support business and household confidence, which a number of members saw as especially important in the current circumstances. Even after a 50 basis point reduction, the federal funds rate would not reflect an unusually accommodative policy stance in that, in real terms, it would still be positive by many measures and above its typical level in most earlier periods of economic weakness. Moreover, the decline in stock market prices and the widening of risk spreads had damped the stimulative financial effects of the Committee's earlier easing actions. The relatively low level of inflation and well-contained inflationary expectations allowed the Committee flexibility to focus on countering the downside risks to the economy without incurring a significant threat of fostering expectations of higher inflation. Monetary policy is a flexible instrument and, with inflation expectations likely to remain relatively benign, policy could be reversed in a timely manner later should stimulative policy measures and the inherent resiliency of the economy begin to foster an unsustainable pace of economic expansion.

In keeping with their views about the risks to the economy, all the members supported the retention of the sentence in the press statement indicating that the risks continued to be weighted toward further weakness in the foreseeable future.