The information reviewed at this meeting suggested that the attacks of September 11 might well have induced a mild downturn in economic activity after several months of little movement in the level of economic activity. While few nonfinancial economic data were available on developments since the attacks, anecdotal and survey reports suggested that heightened uncertainty and sharply reduced confidence had curtailed consumer spending and had intensified the downward trajectory in business capital expenditures. Consumer price inflation had remained relatively subdued over the summer months.

Data for August portrayed some continued softening in overall labor market conditions. Private nonfarm payroll employment fell appreciably further, with the decline more than accounted for by additional job losses in manufacturing. Labor demand remained sluggish in most other sectors, though some pickup was reported in services. The unemployment rate rose to 4.9 percent in August, its highest level in four years. A sharp increase in initial claims for unemployment insurance in recent weeks was suggestive of additional deterioration in labor markets.

Industrial production fell substantially further in August after posting monthly losses starting in October of last year. Motor vehicle assemblies were down sharply, reversing a large advance in July, and production of high-tech equipment continued to register large declines. Outside of those two industries, production of business equipment, business supplies, consumer nondurables, and materials also moved appreciably lower. The rate of capacity utilization in manufacturing continued to fall, reaching its lowest level since mid-1983.

Growth in consumer spending picked up somewhat in July and August from a reduced pace in the second quarter despite a small drop in sales of new motor vehicles. However, anecdotal reports from around the nation pointed to a downturn in September, largely reflecting marked weakness after the terrorist attacks. Indicators of consumer confidence fell further in September.

Despite low mortgage interest rates, residential building activity softened somewhat in August and some indicators of housing demand, including mortgage applications for home purchases, had downshifted a bit further in recent weeks. However, builder backlogs appeared to be large enough to sustain homebuilding activity at a fairly elevated level for several months. Sales of new homes edged up in August but were little changed on balance since April.

Business capital spending contracted substantially further over the summer months, and anecdotal information after September 11 pointed to even deeper cutbacks by many firms. The added weakness evidently stemmed from increased concerns about future sales and earnings, which also was reflected in the sharp declines in stock market prices after the equity markets reopened on September 17. Available indicators suggested that expenditures for equipment and software had remained on a sharp downward trajectory into late summer, though the overall decline in such spending was moderated by sizable outlays for aircraft in July and August. New orders for nondefense capital goods edged up in August but were still well below their average for the second quarter. Nonresidential construction activity appeared to be falling appreciably further after a sharp downturn in the second quarter.

Business inventory liquidation remained substantial in July, extending the sizable declines since the start of the year. Large drawdowns were recorded in manufacturing and, excluding motor vehicles, in both wholesale and retail trade. The limited data available for August indicated some reduction in dealer stocks of motor vehicles and sizable further liquidation of durable goods by firms in the manufacturing sector. Nonetheless, the aggregate inventory-sales ratio for producers of durable goods edged up in August, led by a further rise in the ratio for computers and electronic products. In the days following the terrorist attacks, anecdotal reports indicated that disruptions in transportation facilities, including the temporary suspension of air cargo service and lengthy trucking delays at the nation's borders, caused some backups in inventories at some firms and shortages at others, but these problems generally seemed to ease within a few days.

The U.S. trade deficit in goods and services was about unchanged in July from its June level, but both exports and imports dropped sharply as weakness in worldwide economic activity continued to affect the nation's foreign trade. The reduced value of exports in July was spread among most trade categories but was especially pronounced in machinery, industrial supplies, and automotive products. The reduction in imports was led by declines in oil, semiconductors, other machinery, automotive products, and consumer goods. Data for foreign industrial economies confirmed earlier indications of little or no growth in those economies in the second quarter, and more recent information for the period prior to the terrorist attacks pointed to further weakness, including evidence of declining activity in Japan. Available information on conditions in major developing countries also suggested slowing or negative growth in recent months, in part as a consequence of weakness in their exports to the United States and, notably for some Asian economies, the poor performance of the global high-tech industry.

Consumer price inflation remained relatively limited in July and August, with core personal consumption expenditure (PCE) price inflation on an appreciably lower track than core consumer price index (CPI) inflation. For the twelve months ending in August, core PCE prices rose a bit less, and core CPI prices a bit more, than over the previous twelve-month period. Consumer energy prices fell sharply in July and August, but a sizable rebound was anticipated in September as prices of petroleum products moved higher after midsummer in response to refinery disruptions and tightening supplies. In electricity markets, upward price pressures dissipated over the summer, while the sharp run-up of natural gas prices continued to unwind as inventories rose further in the context of persisting high levels of production and sluggish demand. At the producer level, core prices declined in August, notably at the early stages of processing. With regard to labor costs, the rise in average hourly earnings of production or nonsupervisory workers diminished somewhat over July and August, but the year-over-year advance was still appreciably above that for the previous twelve-month period. In addition, large increases in health insurance costs were continuing to add to overall employment costs.