At its meeting on August 21, 2001, the Committee adopted a directive that called for implementing conditions in reserve markets consistent with a reduction of 25 basis points in the intended level of the federal funds rate to a level of about 3-1/2 percent. The Committee took this action in light of the absence of firm evidence that the deceleration in the economic expansion had run its course or that a recovery in output was imminent. With increasing slack in labor and product markets and with inflation expectations contained, the members agreed that the balance of risks continued to be weighted toward conditions that could generate economic weakness in the foreseeable future. Subsequently, on September 17, the Committee reduced its target for the federal funds rate by a further ½ percentage point. This action was taken against the backdrop of heightened concerns and uncertainty created by the recent terrorist attacks and their potentially adverse effects on asset prices and the performance of the economy. In conjunction with this easing move, the Federal Reserve indicated that it would continue to supply unusually large volumes of liquidity, and the Committee recognized that the federal funds rate might fall below its new target until the normal functioning of financial markets was restored.

In the period before the terrorist attacks, federal funds traded at rates near the reduced target level established at the August meeting. Most market interest rates edged lower over that period in response to generally downbeat news on the economy, and broad stock market indexes fell appreciably. For a few days after September 11, with federal funds brokerage disrupted, banks generally agreed to trade reserves at the 3-1/2 percent federal funds target rate then prevailing. As more normal functioning resumed in the federal funds market, the rate fell well below the Committee's formal targets, including the reduced rate set on September 17. By the latter part of September and early October, however, the effective rate was fluctuating around the new target level. After the terrorist attacks, rates on short- and intermediate-term Treasury securities fell appreciably further, as did yields on highly rated obligations such as federal agency debt. However, the yield declines did not extend to long-term Treasury bonds, which changed little as investors apparently reacted to the deteriorating outlook for the federal budget surplus and prospectively larger Treasury bond supplies. Yields on investment-grade corporate bonds also were little changed, but rates on high-yield bonds, evidently reflecting increased investor aversion to holding risky securities, rose sharply in very thin markets. In the stock market, broad equity price measures fell considerably further in volatile trading after the markets reopened on September 17, but part of those losses had been recovered by the time of this meeting.

The trade-weighted value of the dollar against the other major foreign currencies was about unchanged on average over the period since the August meeting, as modest dollar appreciation early in the period was reversed after September 11. The dollar ended the period somewhat lower against the yen and the euro but registered an advance against the Canadian dollar. The dollar rose over the period against the currencies of other important trading partners.

Growth of M2 remained relatively robust in July and August, though below the average pace in the first half of the year, while the expansion of M3 weakened markedly over the two months. More recently, a record surge in M2 components in the week ending September 17, which was largely reversed in the following week, resulted in very rapid growth in both aggregates on a monthly average basis in September. In the immediate aftermath of the terrorist attacks, disruptions to the infrastructure of financial markets, including communications and transportation facilities, led to massive dislocations in the distribution of deposits and reserves. At the same time, greatly heightened demand for safe and liquid assets encouraged shifts from equity markets into deposit assets. These financial disturbances called for and were accommodated by record infusions of Federal Reserve credit through open market operations, the discount window, and other sources. In addition, the Federal Reserve eased its rules for lending securities to dealers and took a number of other steps to facilitate the operation of financial markets. To a considerable extent, more normal functioning was restored to those markets by the latter part of September, and the unusual demand for reserves abated.