In the agenda for this meeting, it was reported that advices of the election of Eric S. Rosengren as a member of the Federal Open Market Committee had been received and that he had executed his oath of office.

By unanimous vote, the Federal Open Market Committee selected Brian F. Madigan to serve as Secretary and Economist until the selection of a successor at the first regularly scheduled meeting of the Committee in 2008.

In their discussion of monetary policy for the intermeeting period, Committee members again agreed that maintaining the existing stance of policy at this meeting was likely to be consistent with the overall economy expanding at a moderate pace over coming quarters and inflation pressures moderating over time. The expansion would be supported by solid job gains and rising real incomes that would bolster consumption, and by increasing foreign demand for goods and services produced in the United States. The ongoing adjustment in housing markets likely would exert a restraining influence on overall growth for several more quarters and remained a key source of uncertainty about the outlook. The recent strains in financial markets posed additional downside risks to economic growth. Members expected a return to more normal market conditions, but recognized that the process likely would take some time, particularly in markets related to subprime mortgages. However, a further deterioration in financial conditions could not be ruled out and, to the extent such a development could have an adverse effect on growth prospects, might require a policy response. Policymakers would need to watch the situation carefully. For the present, however, given expectations that the most likely outcome for the economy was continued moderate growth, the upside risks to inflation remained the most significant policy concern. In these circumstances, members agreed that maintaining the target federal funds rate at 5-1/4 percent at this meeting was appropriate.

In light of the recent economic data, anecdotal information, and financial market developments, the Committee agreed that the statement to be released after the meeting should indicate that economic growth was moderate during the first half of the year and that the economy seemed likely to continue to expand moderately in coming quarters, supported by solid growth in employment and incomes and by robust economic growth abroad. Members also agreed that the statement should incorporate their view that downside risks to growth had increased somewhat, and should mention volatile financial markets, tighter credit conditions for some households and businesses, and the ongoing correction in the housing market. In addition, the Committee agreed that the statement should again note that readings on core inflation had improved modestly in recent months but did not yet convincingly demonstrate a sustained moderation of inflation pressures, and that the high level of resource utilization had the potential to sustain inflation pressures. Against this backdrop, members judged that the risk that inflation would fail to moderate as expected continued to outweigh other policy concerns.

At the conclusion of the discussion, the Committee voted to authorize and direct the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, until it was instructed otherwise, to execute transactions in the System Account in accordance with the following domestic policy directive:

"The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions that will foster price stability and promote sustainable growth in output. To further its long-run objectives, the Committee in the immediate future seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with maintaining the federal funds rate at an average of around 5-1/4 percent."

The vote encompassed approval of the text below for inclusion in the statement to be released at 2:15 p.m.:

"Although the downside risks to growth have increased somewhat, the Committee's predominant policy concern remains the risk that inflation will fail to moderate as expected. Future policy adjustments will depend on the outlook for both inflation and economic growth, as implied by incoming information."

Votes for this action: Messrs. Bernanke, Geithner, Hoenig, Kohn, Kroszner, Mishkin, Moskow, Poole, Rosengren, and Warsh.

Votes against this action: None.

It was agreed that the next meeting of the Committee would be held on Tuesday, September 18, 2007.

The meeting adjourned at 1:25 p.m.

Notation Vote

By notation vote completed on July 18, 2007, the Committee unanimously approved the minutes of the FOMC meeting held on June 27-28, 2007.