The information reviewed at the August meeting suggested that economic activity picked up in the second quarter from the slow pace in the first quarter. On average, the economy expanded at a moderate pace during the first half of the year despite the ongoing drag from the housing sector. While the growth of consumer spending slowed in the second quarter from its rapid pace in prior quarters, wages and salaries increased solidly and household sentiment appeared supportive of further gains in spending. Business fixed investment picked up in the second quarter after little net change in the preceding two quarters. Inventories generally appeared to be well aligned with sales at midyear. Overall inflation receded in June because of a decline in energy prices, while the core personal consumption expenditure (PCE) price index rose a bit less than its average pace over the past year.

Private nonfarm payroll employment continued to increase at a healthy pace; the rise in July was about equal to the average increase over the first half of the year. Solid hiring in the service sector was partly offset by declines in construction and manufacturing employment. Most of the drop in construction employment occurred in jobs typically associated with nonresidential construction. Both the average workweek and aggregate hours ticked down in July. The unemployment rate edged up to 4.6 percent; it had remained between 4.4 percent and 4.6 percent since September 2006.

Industrial production picked up in the second quarter after little net change over the preceding two quarters. The increase was largely attributable to a smaller drag from inventory liquidation and a modest improvement in net exports. Manufacturing production rose solidly in the second quarter because of substantial increases in the output of light motor vehicles, other durable consumer goods, business equipment, construction supplies, and materials. Production in high-tech industries rose relatively modestly in comparison to its longer-run growth.

The growth of real consumer spending slowed considerably in the second quarter after substantial increases earlier in the year. The deceleration primarily reflected sharply slower growth in outlays for goods as purchases of motor vehicles decreased noticeably. Although a spike in energy prices eroded real income growth in the second quarter, there were solid gains in wages and salaries. Despite continued softness in house prices, household wealth moved markedly higher in the second quarter, mostly reflecting rising equity prices.

Demand for housing in the second quarter was restrained by higher interest rates and by tightening credit conditions in the subprime mortgage market. Sales of new and existing homes in the second quarter were down substantially from their average levels in the second half of 2006. In June, single-family housing starts held steady at their May rate, although adjusted permit issuance slipped further. The combination of decreased sales and unchanged production left inventories of new homes for sale still elevated. House-price appreciation continued to slow, with some measures again showing declines in home values.

Outlays for nonresidential construction rose rapidly in the second quarter. Business spending on equipment and software, other than transportation equipment, posted a solid increase after being flat, on net, in the preceding two quarters. The rise was led by a rebound in purchases of industrial machinery. Expenditures for computers, software, and communications equipment grew moderately in the second quarter after a brisk first-quarter increase. Spending on transportation equipment again declined sharply. The drop was largely a continuation of the payback from exceptionally strong purchases of heavy trucks in 2005 and 2006 in anticipation of tighter emissions standards on diesel engines. New orders for medium and heavy trucks edged up in the second quarter, though they remained at low levels, suggesting that the downturn in business spending on motor vehicles may be ending.

Real nonfarm inventory investment was a roughly neutral influence on real GDP growth in the second quarter after having held down the growth rate by an average of 1 percentage point in the previous two quarters. Businesses made considerable progress in reducing the apparent inventory overhangs that had emerged at the end of 2006. In the motor vehicle sector, low rates of assemblies in the first half of this year left inventories of domestic light vehicles at the end of the second quarter fairly well aligned with sales; however, inventories rose again in July as production accelerated and sales remained weak. More broadly, the number of purchasing managers who viewed their customers' inventory levels as too high in July only slightly exceeded the number who saw them as too low.

The U.S. international trade deficit widened in May, as a rise in imports more than offset an increase in exports. Within imports, most categories of goods recorded an increase, as did services. The value of oil imports rose sharply, boosted by a jump in the price of imported oil. The increase in exports was largely attributable to capital goods, including aircraft, computers and semiconductors, and industrial supplies.

Economic activity in advanced foreign economies expanded somewhat less rapidly in the second quarter than in the prior quarter, but nonetheless appeared to have grown faster than trend, reflecting upbeat business and consumer confidence as well as favorable labor market conditions. Although many of those economies recently experienced sharp declines in equity prices and widening credit spreads amid deepening concerns about credit quality, these developments occurred too late in the intermeeting period to have any apparent effect on incoming data. In Japan, survey evidence suggested that its economy expanded moderately. Survey evidence indicated high levels of economic sentiment and strong capital spending plans among large manufacturers. In the euro area, survey measures of business and consumer confidence remained near record highs in July, and labor market conditions generally continued to improve in May and June. In the United Kingdom, real GDP growth rose in the second quarter, an increase driven mainly by robust expansion in the service sector. Canada's growth seemed to continue to pick up from its disappointing rate posted in much of last year.

Recent data indicated that economic activity in emerging-market economies remained generally strong. The Chinese economy continued to expand at a rapid pace, and activity elsewhere in emerging Asia appeared to have accelerated. In Latin America, Mexican indicators pointed to a weaker-than-expected rebound in the second quarter, whereas Brazil and Argentina appeared to have experienced solid growth. While equity prices fell and bond spreads widened in several emerging-market economies, particularly in Latin America, there was no evidence that this increased volatility had yet weighed on economic activity.

U.S. headline consumer price inflation slowed in June as energy prices flattened out after a rapid increase over the preceding three months. Core PCE prices rose 0.1 percent in June, as a decline in the price index for core goods nearly offset a rise in the index for core services. The readings on core PCE price inflation in recent months had been held down, in part, by declines in prices of some categories of goods, such as apparel, that tend to be volatile on a monthly basis. Household surveys conducted in early July indicated that the median expectation for inflation over the next year remained unchanged from June's elevated level despite declines in gasoline prices in both months. Median expectations of longer-term inflation ticked up and were near the top of the narrow range that had prevailed over the past few years. The employment cost index rose somewhat faster in the second quarter than over the preceding three months, and the twelve-month change was slightly higher than that of a year ago.

At its June meeting, the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) maintained its target for the federal funds rate at 5-1/4 percent. The statement announcing the policy decision noted that economic growth appeared to have been moderate during the first half of the year, despite the ongoing adjustment in the housing sector. The economy seemed likely to continue to expand at a moderate pace over coming quarters. Readings on core inflation had improved modestly in recent months. However, a sustained moderation in inflation pressures had yet to be convincingly demonstrated. Moreover, the high level of resource utilization had the potential to sustain those pressures. The Committee's predominant policy concern remained the risk that inflation would fail to moderate as expected. Future policy adjustments would depend on the evolution of the outlook for both inflation and economic growth, as implied by incoming information.