At its meeting on August 12, 2003, the Federal Open Market Committee adopted a directive that called for maintaining conditions in reserve markets consistent with keeping the federal funds rate at around 1 percent. In reaching this decision, the Committee members generally perceived the upside and downside risks to the attainment of sustainable growth for the next few quarters to be roughly equal; however, they viewed the probability, though minor, of an unwelcome fall in inflation as exceeding that of a rise in inflation from its already low level. The Committee judged that, on balance, the risk of inflation becoming undesirably low would remain the predominant concern for the foreseeable future. In those circumstances, the Committee believed that policy accommodation could be maintained for a considerable period.

The Committee's decision to leave its target for the federal funds rate and assessment of risks unchanged at the August meeting was widely anticipated. On net over the intermeeting period, market expectations for the federal funds rate changed little. However, intermediate- and longer-term interest rates were volatile over the period, with yields on Treasury coupons declining slightly on balance. Yields on most investment-grade securities moved in line with those on Treasury obligations, but a more optimistic economic outlook among investors contributed to a substantial decline in speculative-grade yields. Broad stock price indexes rose notably, boosted by improved economic growth prospects and the associated upwardly revised expectations for earnings.

On balance, the nominal value of the dollar changed little on a broad trade-weighted basis over the intermeeting period. Optimism about global recovery reportedly prompted gains in the equity markets of major industrial countries. Benchmark government bond yields rose in most foreign industrial economies.

M2 grew briskly again in August, boosted by the effects of mortgage refinancing activity, a temporary bulge in liquid deposits caused by payment delays related to power outages, and tax rebate disbursements.