The information reviewed at this meeting suggested that economic activity had been picking up in recent months, although the data were not uniformly positive. Domestic final demand had strengthened appreciably, with solid gains in both household and business spending. While industrial production was growing, job losses continued. Inventories were again drawn down. Consumer prices had edged up in recent months, but year-over-year consumer inflation remained at a very low level.

Private nonfarm payroll employment fell again in August, with a decline similar to those in June and July. Employment continued to fall in the manufacturing, wholesale and retail trade, transportation and utilities, and information categories. Employment in the service industry was about unchanged as job losses in professional and business services largely offset expansion in non-business services. Growth in construction employment continued. Aggregate hours of private production workers edged down in August, reflecting the employment declines, while the average workweek was unchanged. The unemployment rate fell to 6.1 percent in August.

Industrial production posted a solid increase in July after no change in June. Data available for August suggested increased output at utilities, reflecting abnormally hot weather, but little net change in manufacturing. Overall capacity utilization rose in July, led by the increase in utility production.

Retail sales rose a bit further in August after surging in July. Real personal consumption spending advanced briskly through July (latest data) as all major categories of outlays recorded increases. Real disposable income rose substantially in July largely because of the reduction in tax withholdings and the delivery of advance refund checks relating to higher childcare deductions. The further delivery of such checks in August was expected to have a positive effect on spending in that month as well. Although the index of consumer sentiment ticked down in August and early September, it remained well above its March low.

Housing construction and sales remained very strong in July. Single-family housing starts rose a bit further from the record level in June, while multifamily housing starts were unchanged. Sales of existing homes were up sharply in July, and new home sales remained robust but were off slightly from their rapid June advance.

Data on orders and shipments of nondefense capital goods in July suggested that the upward trend in real business outlays for equipment and software had carried into the third quarter. Total shipments of nondefense capital goods rose moderately in July, with continued notable strength in computers and peripheral equipment. Shipments of communications equipment were off only slightly in July after a surge in June. Orders for nondefense capital goods overall were little changed in July. A drop in nonresidential construction expenditures in July reversed the gains made in the second quarter, with declines in all categories except non-office commercial structures.

Inventories contracted in the second quarter, and partial data for July suggested that the runoff continued into the third quarter. The book value of manufacturing inventories declined for the month, led by stocks of durable goods. However, inventories of wholesale goods edged up. Inventory shipment ratios for the manufacturing sector at book value moved down considerably in July, and book value inventory-sales ratios for wholesalers remained at very low levels by historical standards.

The U.S. international trade deficit edged down in June as exports of goods and services increased and imports were unchanged. For the major foreign industrial countries, economic data for the second quarter were mixed. While real GDP grew strongly in Japan and growth picked up in the United Kingdom, real GDP edged down in Canada and the euro area.

Core consumer prices rose slightly less in August than in July. Both consumer food and energy prices rose somewhat faster than the core components, leaving the overall consumer inflation rate in August slightly higher than in July. Over the twelve-month period ending in August, overall consumer prices were up a bit from the previous year, while core consumer prices decelerated. After significant declines during the second quarter, overall producer prices edged up in July and rose a bit further in August. Core producer prices, however, were little changed for the two months and posted only a slight increase over the twelve-month period. With regard to labor costs, average hourly earnings of production or nonsupervisory workers on private nonfarm payrolls ticked up in August. The twelve-month change in average hourly earnings was about the same as that in the previous year.