In the Committee's discussion of current and prospective economic developments, members commented that while a slowdown in the expansion over the second half of 2000 was not unexpected in light of the previously unsustainable rate of increase in output, the speed and extent of the slowdown were much more pronounced than they had anticipated. Consumer spending and business capital investment had decelerated markedly, partly in association with a sharp decline in consumer and business confidence. This weakening, which was especially evident in durable goods producing industries, had led to large cutbacks in manufacturing output as numerous business firms attempted to pare what they now viewed as excessive inventories. The eventual degree and duration of the softening in economic conditions were difficult to predict. In particular, it was unclear whether the pause in the economic expansion would be largely limited to a relatively short inventory correction or would involve a more extensive cyclical adjustment.

In general, members saw favorable prospects for an appreciable recovery in overall business activity as the year progressed. Members referred to indications that both residential and nonresidential construction activity had remained relatively robust and to fragmentary data and anecdotal reports suggesting that consumer spending had steadied or possibly turned up early this year. Several commented that the sound condition of the banking system was another supportive factor. Some also observed that, counter to the experience generally associated with the onset of earlier recessions, monetary growth had been well maintained in recent months, and a few noted that long-term interest rates currently were appreciably below their peaks of the past year. The prospect that fiscal policy might begin to move in an expansionary direction later in the year was cited as another factor in the outlook for stronger economic activity. A decline in energy prices, should it materialize as anticipated in futures markets, would have a positive effect on both business and consumer spending by lowering business costs and raising disposable consumer incomes adjusted for energy costs. Perhaps the most critical element in this outlook was the persistence of elevated growth in structural labor productivity, which seemed likely to play a vital role in supporting growth in incomes and aggregate demand while also helping to limit inflation pressures.

At the same time, members also saw considerable downside risks to the economic expansion. Energy prices remained elevated and were continuing to depress business and household purchasing power; the overhang of excess capital stocks in some sectors could turn out to be sizable, depressing investment spending for some time; consumer confidence could worsen appreciably more in the face of weaker expansion of incomes and higher job layoffs; and investor concerns about earnings could increase further, sparking lower equity prices and tighter standards and terms on credit.

Except for prices of energy and medical services, the currently available information indicated relatively subdued rates of inflation, and recent surveys pointed to little change in inflation expectations. Looking ahead, members anticipated that somewhat reduced pressures in labor and product markets would foster some softening in consumer price inflation over coming quarters, a development that would be abetted should prices of oil and natural gas ease during the year in line with current market expectations.

In preparation for a semi-annual report to Congress, the members of the Board of Governors and the presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks provided individual projections of the growth in nominal and real GDP, the rate of unemployment, and the rate of inflation for the year 2001. The forecasts were concentrated in ranges of 4 to 5 percent for the growth in nominal GDP and 2 to 2-1/2 percent for the expansion in real GDP, implying some strengthening of economic activity as the year progressed. With growth in business activity falling short of the expansion in the economy's potential, the rate of unemployment was expected to rise somewhat to an average of about 4-1/2 percent by the fourth quarter of the year. Forecasts of the rate of inflation, as measured by the chain-type price index for personal consumption expenditures, were centered in a range of 1-3/4 to 2-1/4 percent, reflecting declines from the inflation rate last year largely stemming from the projected reductions in energy prices.

The marked deceleration in final sales experienced late last year was concentrated in consumer spending for motor vehicles and other durable goods and in business expenditures for equipment and software. In the household sector, rapidly declining consumer confidence, apparently associated in important measure with increasing worker layoffs and growing concerns about future job prospects, had contributed to generally disappointing retail sales during the holiday season. There was some evidence that sales had stabilized and possibly risen slightly in January, though a part of the improvement could reflect steep price discounts for the purpose of reducing inventories. Other negative factors cited by the members included the adverse wealth effects of the decrease in stock market valuations, relatively high consumer debt service burdens, and possible retrenchment by consumers after an extended period of large increases in purchases and related buildups of consumer durables. Nonetheless, in the absence of possible developments leading to further deterioration in consumer sentiment, the members saw reasonable prospects for strengthening consumer spending this year even assuming some decline in such expenditures relative to income. An important factor in this outlook was the expectation of some reduction in energy prices, which would boost disposable incomes available for non-energy expenditures and likely provide a fillip to consumer sentiment in the process. Moreover, with the relatively high rate of growth in structural productivity showing little or no signs of waning, the longer-run prospects for household incomes remained positive. On balance, the various factors weighing on the outlook for consumer spending later this year seemed favorable, though substantial downside risks clearly would persist for some interim period of uncertain duration.

The depressing effects of lagging final sales on business investment spending, notably for equipment and software, were reinforced by deterioration in the financial balance sheets of some business firms, tighter supply conditions in segments of the credit markets, and a buildup in excess capacity that had eroded profitability. In this regard, members referred to earlier unsustainable rates of investment by many high-tech firms that were now obliged to retrench despite still high rates of growth in the demand for their products and services. With regard to the nonresidential construction sector, members provided anecdotal reports of continued high levels of activity in several parts of the country and little evidence of the substantial overbuilding that had characterized the construction industry in earlier periods of developing economic weakness. On balance, while the business investment outlook seemed vulnerable to somewhat greater than projected weakness in the short run, the members were persuaded that, against the background of large continuing gains in structural productivity and cost savings from further investment in equipment and software, business firms were likely to accelerate their spending for new capital after a period of adjustment.

Concerning the outlook for housing activity, recent statistical and anecdotal reports indicated that housing sales and construction were being well maintained and indeed were a bright spot in several regions. Reduced mortgage interest rates appeared to be largely offsetting the marked decline in consumer confidence. Accordingly, and contrary to the experience in earlier periods of softening economic activity, the stabilization of housing activity at a pace near its current fairly high level was seen as a reasonable expectation.

The outlook for inventory investment was more uncertain. The drop in final sales during late 2000 evidently was much faster than generally expected, and inventories rose considerably over the fourth quarter as a whole despite sharp downward adjustments in manufacturing output. In keeping with just-in-time inventory policies, which had been furthered in recent years by advances in technology that allowed faster and more complete readings on sales and adjustments in orders, efforts to reduce inventories were continuing in recent weeks and net inventory liquidation was anticipated in the current quarter. Looking further ahead, a number of members commented that they expected a period of inventory correction that would be relatively sharp but short by historical standards. Improvements in inventory management and related indications that inventory overhangs were small compared to earlier historical experience were factors in this assessment. At the same time, members recognized that the inventory correction had just begun and its duration would depend importantly on the ongoing strength of final sales. In this regard, developments bearing on business and consumer confidence and willingness to spend would play a crucial, though at this point uncertain, role.

Members expressed some divergence of views regarding the outlook for foreign economic activity and the implications for the domestic economy. Some emphasized that most of the nation's important trading partners had growing economies that were likely to provide support for expanding U.S. exports. Other members were concerned about indications of growing weakness in a number of foreign economies that might increasingly inhibit U.S. exports and add to competitive pressures on U.S. producers in domestic markets. The large current account deficit was seen as a factor pointing to potential depreciation of the dollar over time, with adverse repercussions on domestic inflation albeit favorable effects on exports.

In their comments about the outlook for inflation, members noted that current indicators continued on the whole to point to subdued price increases, with lagging demand and strong competitive pressures in many markets severely limiting the ability of business firms to raise their prices. Labor markets were described as still tight across the nation, but reports of layoffs in specific industries were increasing and numerous business contacts indicated that openings were now much easier to fill in many job markets. There were some related indications that wage pressures might be easing. Against the background of a sluggish economy in the near term and forecasts of only moderate economic growth, the members anticipated that inflation would remain contained over the forecast horizon. A key factor in this assessment continued to be their outlook for rapid further gains in structural productivity that would help to hold down increases in unit labor costs. Other factors included the prospect of some decline in energy prices and the persistence of generally benign inflation expectations. On balance, with pressures in labor and product markets ebbing, the outlook for inflation was a source of diminished though persisting concern.

In the Committee's discussion of policy for the intermeeting period ahead, all the members endorsed a proposal calling for a further easing in reserve conditions consistent with a 50 basis point decrease in the federal funds rate to a level of 5-1/2 percent. Such a policy move in conjunction with the 50 basis point reduction in early January would represent a relatively aggressive policy adjustment in a short period of time, but the members agreed on its desirability in light of the rapid weakening in the economic expansion in recent months and associated deterioration in business and consumer confidence. The extent and duration of the current economic correction remained uncertain, but the stimulus provided by the Committee's policy easing actions would help guard against cumulative weakness in economic activity and would support the positive factors that seemed likely to promote recovery later in the year. Several members observed that the evolving nature of the domestic economy, including the ongoing improvements in inventory management and the increase in managerial flexibility to alter the level and mix of capital equipment, associated in part with the greater availability of information, appeared to have fostered relatively prompt adjustments by businesses to changing economic conditions. As a consequence, monetary policy reactions to shifts in economic trends needed in this view to be undertaken more aggressively and completed sooner than in the past. In current circumstances, members saw little inflation risk in such a "front-loaded" easing policy, given the reduced pressures on resources stemming from the sluggish performance of the economy and relatively subdued expectations of inflation.

All the members agreed that the balance of risks sentence in the press statement to be released shortly after this meeting should continue to indicate that the risks would remain tilted toward economic weakness even after today's easing action. The members saw substantial underlying strength and resilience in the economy and they remained optimistic about its prospects beyond the near term in light of the monetary policy stimulus that was being implemented and the persistence of rapid advances in productivity. In this regard, some members commented that the upside risks could not be totally dismissed. But with the adjustments to the stock of capital, consumer durable goods, and inventories to more sustainable levels likely only partly completed and with investors in financial markets remaining skittish, the risks that growth would persist below that of the economy's productivity-enhanced potential continued to dominate the outlook.