The information reviewed at this meeting indicated that the expansion of economic activity had slowed appreciably over the fourth quarter. Consumer and business spending decelerated further, with outlays for consumer durables and business equipment particularly weak. Housing construction remained relatively firm, though significantly below its brisk pace of earlier in the year. The slower growth of final spending resulted in inventory overhangs in a number of industries, most notably those related to the motor vehicle sector. Manufacturing production declined sharply as a result, and overall employment gains moderated further. Price inflation was still relatively subdued.

Labor demand softened further in December, with private nonfarm payroll employment continuing to increase slowly and the average workweek to decline. Nonetheless, the labor market remained very tight and the unemployment rate held at 4 percent, its average for the year. Reduced labor demand in manufacturing accounted for much of the slowdown in nonfarm payroll gains in the fourth quarter, with factory payrolls falling sharply further in December, but in addition sizable cuts in net new hires were recorded in the help-supply and construction industries.

The contraction in industrial production that began in October, largely in the motor vehicle sector, deepened and broadened in November and December. For the fourth quarter as a whole, the drop in production was concentrated in manufacturing; mining activity fell by less while utilities output surged late in the year in response to unseasonably cold weather. Most of the initial weakness in manufacturing output was related directly or indirectly to the slowing in the motor vehicle sector, but by year-end all major market groups had registered steep declines in production. Weaker factory activity in December resulted in a sizable drop in the rate of capacity utilization in manufacturing to a level further below its long-run average.

Against a background of slowing growth of disposable personal income and abrupt declines in consumer sentiment, consumer spending decelerated substantially in the fourth quarter. Purchases of motor vehicles slumped and outlays for other goods increased only a little. However, spending on services picked up somewhat in November (latest data), reflecting at least in part higher expenditures for heating services owing to unseasonably cold weather.

The decline in mortgage rates since the middle of last year had provided some support to residential building activity. Total housing starts increased slightly further in December, with single-family starts recording a brisk rise that might have been, in part, a response to the lower mortgage rates. By contrast, multifamily starts slowed, more than reversing November's run-up. Sales of new homes jumped in December to a very high level, but sales of existing homes dropped considerably.

Business fixed investment contracted slightly in the fourth quarter, reflecting a sizable decline in business spending on equipment and software that was offset in part by a large increase in nonresidential construction. Data on nominal shipments of nondefense capital goods in the fourth quarter indicated a drop in office and computing equipment, only a small gain in communications equipment, and a decline, on net, in non-high-tech equipment. By contrast, investment in nonresidential structures increased briskly further in October and November (latest data). While spending for new office buildings was rising less rapidly, outlays for other commercial structures picked up, and investment in industrial structures remained robust.

Business inventories on a book-value basis mounted further in October and November. Despite production cutbacks, stockbuilding in manufacturing remained rapid and sizable inventory overhangs had emerged in some industries, particularly those related to the motor vehicle sector. As a result, the aggregate stock-sales ratio for the manufacturing sector continued its upward drift that began early last year. Sizable inventory buildups and associated overhangs also were apparent in portions of the retail sector, and the aggregate inventory-sales ratio for the sector remained at the upper end of its range over the past year. At the wholesale level, inventory accumulation was moderate in October and November, but the sector's inventory-sales ratio continued to be at the top of its range for the last twelve months.

The U.S. trade deficit in goods and services fell slightly in October and November after having posted a new record high in September. Nevertheless, the average deficit for October and November was larger than the rate for the third quarter. The value of exports declined in both months, and the average value for the two-month period was below the third-quarter level; the weakness in exports was spread across a number of trade categories. The value of imports for the first two months of the fourth quarter was slightly above the third-quarter average. Economic growth in foreign industrial countries moderated in the second half of last year. The pace of economic expansion in the euro area softened somewhat further in the fourth quarter, as consumer spending remained weak. In Japan, available indicators suggested that economic activity had stagnated in the fourth quarter. Economic growth in Canada and the United Kingdom seemed to have slowed somewhat in the fourth quarter. In addition, the latest data for the major developing countries pointed to reduced expansion in many of those countries.

By most measures, price inflation had remained moderate in recent months. Judging by the consumer price index (CPI), total and core consumer prices rose mildly over November and December, but both accelerated somewhat on a year-over-year basis. In terms of the personal consumption expenditure (PCE) chain-type price index, however, core consumer price inflation was modest in both November (latest data) and the twelve months ended in November, and there was essentially no change year over year. At the producer level, core prices edged up over the November-December period, and the rise in core prices over the year was minimal as well. With regard to labor costs, the employment cost index of hourly compensation for private industry workers (ECI) decelerated noticeably in the fourth quarter, with both the wage and benefit components recording smaller gains. However, growth of ECI compensation picked up somewhat in 2000 from 1999, probably owing in large part to the upward trend in productivity growth. Productivity improvements also showed through to the average hourly earnings of production or nonsupervisory workers, which exhibited a roughly similar acceleration.