At its meeting on December 19, 2000, the Committee adopted a directive that continued to call for maintaining conditions in reserve markets consistent with an unchanged federal funds rate of about 6-1/2 percent. At the same time, however, the members concluded that the balance of risks had shifted sufficiently that they were now weighted toward conditions that could generate economic weakness in the foreseeable future. Indeed, very recent information seemed to signal sudden further weakness, but it was largely anecdotal and most of the aggregate data on spending and employment suggested continued economic expansion, albeit at a relatively slow rate. As a result, most members believed that it would be prudent to await further confirmation of a noticeably weaker expansion before implementing any monetary easing, particularly given the current high level of resource utilization and the record over the last several years of strong rebounds from brief lulls in growth. If, however, incoming data were to reinforce the recent anecdotal indications, the Committee would be prepared to respond promptly.

Open market operations during the intermeeting period were initially directed toward maintaining the federal funds rate at the Committee's targeted level of 6-1/2 percent. However, information that became available in the weeks after the December meeting tended to confirm the earlier indications of weakness in spending, and at a telephone conference on January 3, 2001, the Committee approved a 1/2 percentage point reduction in the federal funds rate, to 6 percent, and also agreed that the risks remained weighted toward economic weakness. The federal funds rate remained close to the Committee's targets over the intermeeting period, and interest rates on short-term Treasury securities and high-quality private debt obligations declined over the period almost as much as the funds rate. The Committee's action seemed to help ease some concerns about the longer-term outlook, and risk spreads on lower-grade bonds fell substantially while broad indexes of U.S. stock market prices rose on balance over the intermeeting period.

In foreign exchange markets, the trade-weighted value of the dollar changed little on balance over the intermeeting interval in terms of an index of major foreign currencies. The dollar lost ground against the euro as market participants took note of the deterioration of near-term prospects for economic growth in the United States relative to those for Europe. However, that decline was roughly counterbalanced by a rise in the dollar against the yen, reflecting continuing economic stagnation in Japan. The dollar posted a small gain against an index of the currencies of other important trading partners, largely reflecting expectations that some emerging economies might be adversely affected by slower growth in the United States.

The broad monetary aggregates accelerated sharply in December and apparently strengthened further in January. The pickup in M2 growth evidently reflected a flight from heightened equity market volatility late last year to the safety and liquidity of M2 assets along with a recent narrowing of the opportunity costs of holding funds in M2 accounts. M3 grew even faster than M2, boosted in part by stepped-up issuance of large time deposits to fund a pickup in bank credit. The expansion of domestic nonfinancial debt increased in November and December (latest data), reflecting greater business borrowing, perhaps to finance growing inventories and smaller contractions in the amount of federal debt outstanding.