In their discussion of the economic situation and outlook, FOMC participants noted that prospects for both economic activity and near-term inflation had deteriorated in view of increasingly fragile financial markets and tighter credit conditions, rising prices for oil and other commodities, and the deepening contraction in the housing sector. Home prices had declined more steeply than anticipated, and the weakening housing market, combined with a softening in labor markets, appeared to be weighing on consumer sentiment. Businesses also were seen as becoming more pessimistic and cautious, despite a strong foreign demand for U.S. goods. Strains in financial markets had increased, portending a possible further tightening in the availability of credit to households and businesses. Against this backdrop, many participants thought some contraction in economic activity in the first half of 2008 now appeared likely. The economy was expected to begin to recover in the second half of the year, supported by recent monetary policy easing and fiscal stimulus. Accommodative monetary policy and a recovery in financial markets along with an abatement of the downdraft in housing activity were expected to help foster a further pickup in economic growth in 2009. However, considerable uncertainty surrounded this forecast, and some participants expressed concern that falling house prices and stresses in financial markets could lead to a more severe and protracted downturn in activity than currently anticipated. Participants noted that recent readings on inflation had generally been elevated, that energy prices had risen sharply, and that some indicators of inflation expectations had risen. Most participants anticipated that a flattening of oil and other commodity prices and easing pressures on resources would contribute to some moderation in inflation pressures. Nonetheless, uncertainties about the outlook for inflation had risen.

Stresses in financial markets had intensified noticeably since the January meeting. Several meeting participants noted that price discovery for mortgage-related financial assets had become increasingly difficult in an environment of declining house prices and considerable uncertainty as to the ultimate extent of such declines. With the magnitude and distribution of losses on mortgage assets quite unclear and many financial institutions experiencing significant balance sheet pressures, many lenders pulled back from risk taking--notably by increasing collateral margins on secured lending--and liquidity diminished in a number of financial markets. In these circumstances, many market participants were experiencing greater difficulties obtaining funding, and meeting participants regarded financial markets as unusually fragile. The new liquidity facilities recently introduced by the Federal Reserve would probably be helpful in bolstering market liquidity and promoting orderly market functioning, but even so, the ongoing strains were likely to raise the price and reduce the availability of credit to businesses and households. Evidence that an adverse feedback loop was under way, in which a restriction in credit availability prompts a deterioration in the economic outlook that, in turn, spurs additional tightening in credit conditions, was discussed. Several participants noted that the problems of declining asset values, credit losses, and strained financial market conditions could be quite persistent, restraining credit availability and thus economic activity for a time and having the potential subsequently to delay and damp economic recovery.

Participants noted that the contraction in the housing sector had deepened and that considerable uncertainty surrounded the outlook for housing. Although some stabilization in housing markets was likely needed to help underpin an economic recovery in coming quarters, there was little indication that that process had yet begun. Elevated rates of foreclosures and large inventories of unsold property were likely to depress home prices for some time. Lower home prices would eventually buoy home buying, but in the meantime the prospect of continued price declines could lead potential homebuyers to defer purchases for a time, further damping housing activity and adding to downward pressure on home values. Participants noted that the trajectory of house prices was a major source of uncertainty in their economic outlook.

Recent data and anecdotal reports from business contacts suggested that consumer spending was decelerating noticeably, though it apparently had not yet actually declined substantially. Participants noted that private payroll employment had fallen in February for the third consecutive month, and suggested that increasing concerns among workers about prospects for employment and income likely were holding down consumer outlays. Rising energy prices were also damping growth in real incomes. One participant reported that lenders were restricting draws on home equity lines, and the tightening of credit availability more generally was probably starting to constrain consumer spending. Also, the continued fall in home prices and declines in equity prices were weighing on household wealth, with a depressing effect on spending.

The outlook for business spending had also dimmed since the time of the January meeting. Anecdotal reports from many regions of the country pointed to a retrenchment in capital spending in response to increased pessimism about economic prospects and heightened caution on the part of business managers. The tightening supply of credit was seen as exacerbating this softness in business outlays and contributing particularly to a pullback from nonresidential construction projects. However, investment spending on agricultural equipment was reported to be quite strong, spurred by soaring crop prices. Reports on inventories were mixed but, overall, inventories appeared to be roughly in balance with desired levels.

In discussing the external sector of the economy, some participants indicated that net exports remained a notable source of support for the economy. Growth in exports was being supported by strength in foreign economies as well as declines in the foreign exchange value of the dollar. However, some of the recent increase in net exports resulted from weaker imports, which reflected softer domestic spending. Some participants saw somewhat slower global economic growth as a possible consequence of the problems in financial markets and weakness in the United States and noted that such a development could potentially limit the support that exports would provide to the U.S. economy going forward.

The recent information on inflation was seen as disappointing. With the exception of the February report on consumer prices, readings on inflation had generally been elevated. Agricultural prices were rising at a substantial clip, partly in response to strong global demand, lean supplies, and a lower foreign exchange value of the dollar. Other commodity prices also were climbing rapidly, and crude oil prices were near record levels. Several participants stated that business contacts had emphasized that their input costs were rising and that they were seeking to pass on higher costs to their customers. Some participants, however, expressed the view that emerging economic slack would limit the extent to which firms could pass on their higher costs and could serve to damp inflation more generally. Moreover, available data and anecdotal reports suggested that unit labor costs were rising only modestly, and thus were seen as unlikely to exert significant upward pressure on prices. Weaker growth, both in the United States and abroad, should also contribute to a flattening of oil and other commodity prices over time, which would also reduce price pressures and the threat of rising inflation expectations. On balance, most participants still expected inflation to moderate later this year and in 2009. However, the recent depreciation of the dollar could boost import prices and thus contribute to higher inflation. Moreover, with both core and headline inflation having been somewhat elevated, participants expressed some concern that inflation expectations might become less firmly anchored. Indeed, some indicators suggested that inflation expectations had edged higher of late. In view of these considerations, significant uncertainty attended the near-term outlook for price pressures. On balance, however, participants emphasized that appropriate monetary policy, combined with effective communication of the Committee's commitment to price stability, would foster price stability over time.