Over the intermeeting period, conditions in some short-term funding markets worsened. Spreads in interbank funding markets widened, as did spreads on lower-rated commercial paper. Obtaining credit through repurchase agreements backed by agency and private-label mortgage-backed securities (MBS) also became more difficult amid reports of larger "haircuts" being applied by lenders and news that some market participants missed margin calls on positions as a result. Concerns over the health of financial guarantors caused dislocations in the markets for municipal securities, and the ratios of municipal bond yields to those on comparable-maturity Treasuries climbed to historically high levels. In longer-term corporate markets, yields on investment-grade and speculative-grade corporate bonds rose, pushing their spreads relative to Treasuries to the highest levels since 2002 or even earlier in some cases. Nonetheless, gross bond issuance in January and February remained solid for investment-grade firms.

Commercial bank credit decelerated in January and February, damped by a reduction in merger and acquisition activity, weak business spending, fewer previously committed loan deals coming onto banks' books, and slower residential mortgage lending. Commercial real estate lending at banks, however, continued to advance briskly in January and February, while the rise in consumer loans was moderate. Over the intermeeting period, spreads on conforming and jumbo residential mortgages over comparable-maturity Treasury securities jumped, and credit default swap premiums for the government-sponsored enterprises increased to record highs. Issuance of conforming MBS continued to be strong, while credit availability for jumbo and nonprime mortgage borrowers remained tight. Broad stock price indexes fell further over the intermeeting period on negative economic news as well as concerns about the outlook for many financial institutions.

Similar stresses were again evident in the financial markets of major foreign economies. However, economic news in these economies was generally less downbeat than in the United States, leading to expectations of greater monetary easing in the United States than elsewhere. The trade-weighted foreign exchange value of the dollar against major currencies declined notably.

M2 increased strongly in January and February, boosted primarily by heightened demands for the relative safety and liquidity of money market mutual funds. The decline in opportunity costs associated with monetary policy easing also supported rapid growth of liquid deposits.

In the two weeks prior to the March meeting, the Federal Reserve announced several measures to bolster liquidity and promote orderly functioning in financial markets. On March 7, the Federal Reserve announced that it would initiate a series of term repurchase transactions that would facilitate funding of primary dealers' assets and that the volume of lending through the Term Auction Facility (TAF) would be increased. On March 11, the Federal Reserve, in coordination with other central banks, announced the expansion and extension of the reciprocal currency arrangements that were established in December as well as the creation of a Term Securities Lending Facility (TSLF) under which the Federal Reserve would lend Treasury securities to primary dealers for longer terms than in the existing program and based on a broader range of collateral. On March 14, the Federal Reserve Board approved the temporary financing arrangement announced that morning by JPMorgan Chase & Co. and The Bear Stearns Companies Inc. On March 16, the Federal Reserve announced the creation of a lending facility to improve the ability of primary dealers to provide financing to participants in securitization markets. In addition, the Federal Reserve lowered the primary credit rate, or discount rate, 25 basis points to 3.25 percent, and extended the maximum maturity of primary credit loans to ninety days from thirty days. It also approved the longer-term financing arrangement announced that evening by JPMorgan Chase and Bear Stearns in conjunction with the acquisition of Bear Stearns by JPMorgan Chase.

Over the intermeeting period, the expected path of monetary policy over the next year as measured by money market futures rates moved down sharply, largely in response to softer-than-expected economic data releases and deteriorating financial market conditions. The Committee's action at the January 30 meeting had been viewed by market participants as the most likely outcome, but near-term futures rates declined a few basis points as investors had placed some probability on a smaller policy move. Neither the subsequent release of the minutes of the meeting nor the March 7 Federal Reserve announcements elicited significant market reaction. The March 11 TSLF announcement was followed by a step-up in money market futures rates as liquidity concerns eased somewhat and market participants evidently concluded that less policy easing would be needed than previously anticipated. However, liquidity concerns reemerged subsequently, prompting a further drop in money market futures rates. Consistent with the shift in the economic outlook, the revision in policy expectations, and the reduction in the target federal funds rate, yields on short- and medium-term nominal Treasury coupon securities declined substantially after the January 30 FOMC meeting. However, yields on long-term Treasuries fell much less than those on shorter-term instruments, and the yield curve steepened significantly. Inflation compensation--the difference between yields on nominal Treasury securities and those on inflation-indexed issues--was little changed on balance for shorter-term issues, but longer-term inflation compensation rose.