The information available at the time of the meeting indicated that real gross domestic product (GDP) had continued to expand at a solid pace in 2024. Labor market conditions had eased since early 2024, but the unemployment rate remained low. Consumer price inflation was below its year-earlier rate but was still somewhat elevated.

Total consumer price inflation—as measured by the 12-month change in the price index for personal consumption expenditures (PCE)—was 2.3 percent in October, below the 3.0 percent rate seen a year earlier. Core PCE price inflation—which excludes changes in consumer energy prices and many consumer food prices—was 2.8 percent in October, lower than its 3.4 percent rate a year earlier. In November, the 12-month change in the consumer price index (CPI) was 2.7 percent, and core CPI inflation was 3.3 percent; both were below their year-earlier rates. Given both the CPI and producer price index data, the staff estimated that total PCE price inflation would be reported as 2.5 percent over the 12 months ending in November and that core PCE price inflation would be 2.8 percent.

Recent data suggested that labor market conditions had eased slightly further but remained solid. Average monthly nonfarm payroll gains over October and November were a little below their pace in the third quarter. The staff estimated that job gains were held down by the effects of labor strikes and hurricanes in October and were boosted by a similar amount in November after those effects unwound. The unemployment rate ticked up to 4.2 percent in November, and both the labor force participation rate and the employment-to-population ratio moved down a bit further. The unemployment rates for African Americans and for Hispanics also moved up, and both rates were above those for Asians and for Whites. The ratio of job vacancies to unemployment held steady at 1.1 in November, slightly lower than its level just before the pandemic. Average hourly earnings for all employees rose 4 percent over the 12 months ending in November—the same rate as in the previous month.

Real GDP posted a solid gain in the third quarter that was similar to its second-quarter pace. Real private domestic final purchases (PDFP)—which comprises PCE and private fixed investment and which often provides a better signal than GDP of underlying economic momentum—rose faster than real GDP in the third quarter. Exports rose briskly in the third quarter; import growth was even faster. In the fourth quarter, available economic indicators suggested that real GDP growth remained solid, with growth of real PDFP still outpacing that of real GDP. Imports fell more than exports in October, with real imports of capital goods dropping back after brisk growth earlier in the year.

Foreign economic growth picked up in the third quarter, notably in the euro area and in Mexico. Recent economic indicators, however, suggested much weaker momentum in foreign economies in the fourth quarter, with lackluster manufacturing activity and subdued private consumption spending. In China, growth in retail sales slowed, suggesting that domestic demand remained weak. Strength in high-tech goods production continued abroad, mainly in Asia excluding China, supported by buoyant U.S. demand.

Inflation in foreign economies continued to ease. In most AFEs, headline inflation slowed to near or below target levels, mainly reflecting the pass-through of lower energy prices earlier in the year. Services inflation, however, remained high in some of those economies. In China, inflation remained close to zero, in part due to falling food prices. By contrast, in some Latin American countries, most notably Brazil, inflation continued to increase, partly because of currency depreciation.