The market-implied path of the federal funds rate over the next year edged higher, on net, since the U.S. election, as investors assessed the implications of incoming inflation data and potential economic policy changes for the near-term economic outlook. Communications by Federal Reserve officials contributed to investors' perceptions of a slower timeline for policy rate reductions. Nominal Treasury yields across the maturity spectrum initially increased but then reversed those increases, ending the intermeeting period little changed. Measures of near-term inflation compensation moved up, while those of longer-term inflation compensation were little changed.

Broad equity prices rose, with more pronounced increases in stock prices in cyclical sectors amid increased investor optimism for corporate profits, and high-yield bond spreads narrowed. The VIX—a forward-looking measure of near-term equity market volatility—fell notably and remained well below pre-election levels.

Foreign financial market pricing reflected weaker-than-expected foreign data releases, expectations of further policy easing by foreign central banks, and potential changes in U.S. trade policy. Accordingly, foreign bond yields generally declined relative to their U.S. counterparts, contributing to dollar appreciation against most foreign currencies. Foreign equities generally underperformed U.S. equities, in part reflecting investors' expectations of economic growth diverging further between the U.S. and the rest of the world.

Many foreign central banks eased their policy rates during the intermeeting period, including the Bank of Canada, the European Central Bank, and the Swiss National Bank, among the AFEs, and the central banks of Hong Kong, India, Korea, and Mexico, among the emerging market economies. An exception was the Central Bank of Brazil, which increased its policy rate 100 basis points and signaled further hikes in the face of inflationary pressures.

Conditions in U.S. short-term funding markets remained generally stable over the intermeeting period, with the lowering of the target range for the federal funds rate in November fully passing through to both secured and unsecured reference rates. Money market funds' (MMFs) usage of the ON RRP facility was lower, on average, than in the previous intermeeting period, reflecting increased holdings of Treasury bills amid sizable net bill issuance. Overall, MMF assets under management stayed near record highs. Spreads of unsecured commercial paper maturing over year-end remained within typical ranges, and global offshore dollar funding markets continued to be stable.

In domestic markets, borrowing costs for households, businesses, and municipalities remained elevated despite small declines in most credit segments. Rates on 30-year fixed-rate conforming residential mortgages declined but stayed elevated. Interest rates on credit cards and new auto loans continued to be at historical highs, although interest rates on new auto loans decreased further. Borrowing costs for leveraged loan borrowers declined slightly. Interest rates on newly originated commercial and industrial (C&I) loans ticked down in the third quarter, and interest rates on short-term loans to small businesses remained unchanged. Yields on an array of fixed-income securities, including investment- and speculative-grade corporate bonds and commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS), decreased slightly but remained elevated.

Financing in capital markets continued to be broadly available for large-to-midsize businesses and municipalities. For small businesses, however, credit availability remained relatively tight, and loan originations stayed subdued in October. C&I loans by banks increased moderately in October and were flat through November after modest growth in the third quarter. After stalling in the third quarter, commercial real estate (CRE) loan growth picked up moderately in October and remained subdued through late November. Meanwhile, agency CMBS issuance continued to be weak in October, while non-agency CMBS issuance was strong in October and in the first three weeks of November, reflecting a high volume of refinancing activity.

Credit continued to be generally available for most households. Even so, auto loans were little changed in the third quarter, and growth of revolving credit was weak into November. Credit in the residential mortgage market continued to be readily available for high-credit-score borrowers, while credit availability for low-credit-score borrowers improved, on net, over the six months through October.

Credit quality remained solid for large-to-midsize firms, municipalities, and most home mortgage borrowers. The credit performance of corporate bonds and leveraged loans was generally stable. At banks, delinquency rates on C&I loans were stable and remained within the range observed over the past decade. Delinquency rates on small business loans continued to increase through October, as did delinquencies on small business credit cards through September. In CRE markets, credit performance deteriorated further as aggregate CMBS delinquency rates rose through October, driven by delinquencies on office loans. At banks, delinquency rates on CRE loans ticked up through September from already elevated levels. Regarding household credit quality, delinquency rates on most residential mortgages were largely unchanged and stood near historical lows. However, the delinquency rate on Federal Housing Administration mortgages, which are disproportionately used by borrowers with lower credit scores and smaller down payments, remained above pre-pandemic levels. Delinquency rates on credit cards continued to increase, albeit at a slower pace than earlier in the year, while delinquency rates on auto loans were unchanged.