In the Committee's discussion of monetary policy for the intermeeting period, all of the members favored boosting the target for the federal funds rate by 25 basis points to 2-3/4 percent at this meeting. Monetary conditions evidently were still quite accommodative, economic activity appeared to have more momentum than had previously been perceived, and, while core inflation most probably would stay low, pressures on inflation seemed to have risen. Prospects for legislative action to apply significant fiscal restraint were unclear, even as the expansion became increasingly well established and private demand proved strong and resilient. Although the required amount of cumulative tightening may have increased, members noted that an accelerated pace of policy tightening did not appear necessary at this time, as a degree of economic slack apparently remained, productivity growth would probably continue to damp increases in unit labor costs and prices, and inflation would most likely continue to be contained. In these circumstances, Committee members judged that the measured removal of policy accommodation was appropriate for now.

In discussing the announcement to be released after the meeting, members agreed that it was appropriate to acknowledge the recent evolution in the inflation situation by indicating that "though longer-term inflation expectations remain well contained, pressures on inflation have picked up in recent months and pricing power is more evident. The rise in energy prices, however, has not notably fed through to core consumer prices." Regarding the risks to sustainable growth and price stability, members discussed a proposal to make the Committee's assessment explicitly conditional on an assumption of appropriate monetary policy so as to underscore that maintaining balanced risks would require policy action. It was noted that the Committee's assessment of balanced risks over the past nine months--a period in which monetary policy had been steadily tightened--necessarily had to be interpreted as based implicitly on an assumption that policy accommodation would be removed. A number of members believed that formulaic language by its nature was too rigid to reflect evolving economic circumstances in a satisfactory manner, especially when developments were subtle or complex, and some of these members believed that the risk assessment should be discontinued. All the members ultimately approved making the risk assessment in the policy announcement following this meeting explicitly conditional on appropriate policy.

Members also focused on the issue of whether to reiterate the judgment expressed in the Committee's recent statements that ". . . policy accommodation can be removed at a pace that is likely to be measured." Some expressed the view that such language could constrain future policy inappropriately; while these concerns were not new, they were now felt to be more pressing, as the odds that the Committee might need to step up the pace of policy firming were thought to have increased. Members noted, however, that the existing "measured pace" language was clearly conditional on the economy evolving in a way that promised a gradual return to high levels of resource utilization and on inflation remaining low, and thus believed that the wording did not rule out either picking up the pace of firming or pausing in the process of removing policy accommodation should circumstances warrant. They also noted that the language had not precluded a notable increase in medium- and longer-term interest rates over the intermeeting period as markets extended the expected gradual increase in policy rates. Some discomfort was expressed with language that related so explicitly to the likely trajectory of future policy action. But it was also averred that the Committee should, to the extent possible, provide information that would help the public anticipate the probable course of monetary policy; providing such information would tend to increase the effectiveness of monetary policy. More generally, members recognized that the Committee's statement would need to evolve over time.

At the conclusion of the discussion, the Committee voted to authorize and direct the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, until it was instructed otherwise, to execute transactions in the System Account in accordance with the following domestic policy directive:

"The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions that will foster price stability and promote sustainable growth in output. To further its long-run objectives, the Committee in the immediate future seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with increasing the federal funds rate to an average of around 2-3/4 percent."
The vote encompassed approval of the paragraph below for inclusion in the statement to be released shortly after the meeting:

"The Committee perceives that, with appropriate monetary policy action, the upside and downside risks to the attainment of both sustainable growth and price stability should be kept roughly equal. With underlying inflation expected to be contained, the Committee believes that policy accommodation can be removed at a pace that is likely to be measured. Nonetheless, the Committee will respond to changes in economic prospects as needed to fulfill its obligation to maintain price stability "
Votes for this action: Messrs. Greenspan, Geithner, Bernanke, Ms. Bies, Messrs. Ferguson, Gramlich, Guynn, Kohn, Moskow, Olson, Santomero, and Stern.

Vote against this action: None.

Mr. Guynn voted as alternate member.

It was agreed that the next meeting of the Committee would be held on Tuesday, May 3, 2005.

The meeting adjourned at 1:25 p.m.

Notation Vote
By notation vote completed on February 22, 2005, the Committee unanimously approved the minutes of the meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee held on February 1-2, 2005.