Many participants noted that the most recent data and business commentary indicated that investment was running considerably stronger in the first quarter of the year than had previously been anticipated. Underlying trends in capital spending appeared to be more robust than had earlier been recognized, perhaps partly in response to unusually supportive financial conditions, and that strength was thought likely to carry forward. Business contacts were more confident about economic prospects, and that confidence was bolstering firms' willingness to invest. Anecdotal information suggested that firms were investing in part to expand capacity and in part to boost productivity and lower costs. Some investment was being prompted by a need to replace equipment that was becoming obsolete, in part because of the higher level of energy prices. Increased demand was reported for a wide variety of categories of capital goods, ranging from several types of heavy equipment, including trucks, farm machinery, and construction equipment, to software and high-tech equipment. Nonresidential construction, however, remained soft in many regions, damped by relatively high vacancy rates for office buildings and other commercial real estate.

Spending on housing and consumer goods and services was also seen as underpinning economic expansion. With single-family housing starts at record levels, residential investment expenditures apparently continued to be spurred by relatively low interest rates. A few participants cited some evidence of speculative activity in the housing market in several regions. However, recent house price developments were mixed, with reports of incipient softness in some markets, including high-end properties, and overall house price inflation was seen as likely to slow in coming quarters. Consumer expenditures were expected to continue to advance at a solid pace, buoyed by strong gains in personal income, although high energy prices could exert some restraint on spending. The possibility of an appreciable rise in the personal saving rate, which was near its historical low, represented another possible downside risk to consumer spending. The recent sharp slowing in motor vehicle sales, which appeared to be related in part to the paring of purchase incentives and perhaps also to the high level of energy prices, raised some concerns about the expansion of economic activity in some regions.

Some participants mentioned that expansion abroad was apparently strengthening early this year, particularly in emerging-market economies. This development, in turn, was likely to help support U.S. exports. Several participants noted that past declines in the foreign exchange value of the dollar were contributing to U.S. economic activity. Tourism from abroad, for example, was being spurred by relative currency values. At the same time, though, it was recognized that growth in U.S. domestic demand would likely continue to be met in part by imports, tending to trim the increase in domestic output.

U.S. industrial activity was increasing steadily, pushing capacity utilization higher. Production was expanding in a broad range of manufacturing categories, notably including high-tech and defense industries. Business contacts indicated that the high level of energy prices was spurring coal mining activity. Drilling for oil and gas was also increasing, although extraction was said to be crimped in some instances by a scarcity of experienced rig hands as well as spot shortages of certain key production inputs, such as drilling pipe.

Around the nation, labor markets conditions were reported to be stable to improving, and meeting participants perceived that slack in labor markets was gradually diminishing. In general, business executives indicated that labor was readily available, although again workers with certain skills and in certain occupations, such as trucking, were becoming increasingly difficult to hire. Some commented that the failure of labor force participation to rise as expected as the expansion gained momentum likely portended somewhat weaker labor force growth than previously anticipated; such a development, at the margin, would tend to reduce the expansion of potential output. Still, pressures on prices stemming from labor costs seemed well contained and were expected to remain damped in coming quarters. National data and anecdotal information suggested that wages generally continued to increase moderately. However, health-care expenses were a persistent source of pressure on costs.

Growth in unit labor costs had continued to be held down by growth of output per hour worked, which had continued to perform surprisingly well. Although productivity growth had slowed from the extraordinarily rapid pace that prevailed earlier in the expansion, data for the fourth quarter of 2004, as well as preliminary indications for the first quarter of this year, suggested that gains from efficiency remained substantial. Participants remarked that many business executives were seeking further advances in productivity through organizational improvements as well as through investment in equipment and software. Regarding the latter, some evidence suggested that rapid technological progress was being sustained, which would continue to drive down the cost of many forms of productive capital and thus boost returns on investment. Moreover, the stronger picture of capital spending that had emerged of late boded well for the performance of productivity going forward. Still, considerable uncertainty persisted about longer-run prospects for productivity growth, unit labor costs, and cost pressures on profits and prices.

Meeting participants commented in particular detail on the inflation situation. They noted with some concern the recent elevated readings on inflation in prices of core personal consumption expenditures, the producer price index, and indicators of prices at earlier stages of production, as well as the sizable further increase in energy prices. Nonetheless, many participants stated that they expected total inflation to diminish and any rise in core consumer inflation to be limited. One source of upward pressure on inflation had been the rise in energy prices, and it seemed reasonable to expect that these prices would level out or even decline mildly, as built into futures prices. Unit labor costs were still being held down by moderate wage growth and rising productivity. Indeed, a few saw a distinct possibility of further positive productivity surprises, representing a downside risk to the inflation outlook. Moreover, the markup of prices over costs in nonfarm businesses remained quite high, and firms would likely be pressed by competition to absorb a portion of any step-up in the growth of unit labor costs, at least if that acceleration were limited in extent and duration. In addition, prices of many non-energy commodities had risen in recent weeks, but such inputs constituted a relatively small fraction of overall business costs, and, partly for that reason, in the past commodity prices had demonstrated little predictive content for broad inflation rates. While short-term inflation expectations had risen somewhat, longer-term inflation expectations remained well contained. And lastly, monetary policy would be aimed at preserving price stability.

Still, many participants indicated that their uncertainty about the intensity of inflation pressures had risen in response to recent developments and that, in particular, the distribution of possible inflation outcomes was now tilted a little to the upside. Although monthly statistical releases could be quite volatile, the recent data showing consumer inflation a little above previous expectations were of concern. Also, anecdotal indications of price increases were becoming more common across a number of industries. Some business executives reportedly believed that, with aggregate demand expanding robustly and the lower foreign exchange value of the dollar putting upward pressure on import prices, a degree of "pricing power" had returned. Moreover, the recent rebound in spot crude oil prices, and especially the substantial advance in prices of crude oil futures contracts for delivery well into the future, suggested that a significant unwinding of higher energy costs might not be in prospect. Several participants indicated that, in current circumstances, they viewed an upside surprise to inflation as potentially more harmful than an equivalent downside surprise, partly because such an outcome could well impart additional upward momentum to inflation expectations.