The information reviewed at this meeting suggested that the economy was expanding at a solid pace in the first quarter of the year. Employment was improving. Consumer spending still appeared to be growing briskly, and residential construction expenditures continued to move higher. Business spending on equipment and software showed notable gains early in the quarter, and industrial production increased moderately in the first two months of the year. Consumer prices moved higher in January after being unchanged in December.

The labor market continued to improve in February. Private nonfarm payrolls grew at a solid pace, and these gains were widespread across industries. Of particular note, manufacturing employment, which had been declining, edged higher. On balance, surveys of employers and of households pointed to firming labor demand. With the average workweek unchanged, aggregate hours increased moderately in February. Although the unemployment rate in February ticked back up to its December level, the set of available information on the labor market suggested that resource slack was diminishing.

Industrial production posted a moderate gain in February, led by a surge in motor vehicle production. Production of high-tech equipment rose, with the increase in output of communications equipment far outpacing sluggish growth of computer production. Production of consumer goods, both durable and nondurable, also rose. In contrast, the production of non-high-tech business equipment edged down, and the output of construction and business supplies and materials dropped back. Mining output edged up, but the output of utilities fell for a second consecutive month amid a generally warm winter.

Supported by strong income gains and higher wealth, consumer spending had increased at a robust rate in the last quarter of 2004 and appeared to be on track to post another strong advance in the first quarter of the year. Apart from purchases of motor vehicles, which stepped down early this year after a year-end surge, the increases in outlays had been broad based. On average, real disposable income increased at a vigorous pace in December and January, well above that seen over most of last year. Increases in equity prices and in house values pushed up the wealth-to-income ratio in the fourth quarter, and the saving rate remained low by historical standards.

Activity in the housing market continued to expand early this year. Starts of single-family homes in January and February were well above their fourth-quarter pace, although indicators of future production pointed to some slowing. Similarly, in the multifamily sector, starts increased substantially in the first two months of the year but appeared poised to moderate this month. Although both new and existing home sales declined somewhat in January, demand continued to be supported by low mortgage rates.

Business spending on equipment and software increased sharply in the fourth quarter and, excluding motor vehicles, appeared to be growing briskly in the first quarter. The expiration at the end of 2004 of the special tax provisions that permitted partial expensing of investment expenditures seemed not to be retarding capital spending. Presumably contributing to the vigor of capital spending were further increases in business output, strong cash positions of corporations, and an attractive cost of capital amid generally low interest rates. Shipments and orders for high-tech equipment remained strong in January. Outside the high-tech sector, shipments posted a sizable and broad-based increase in January, and the rising backlog of orders pointed to further gains in the near future. Spending on nonresidential construction was subdued, as it had been for some time.

Increased inventory accumulation contributed significantly to the rise in economic output in the fourth quarter of last year and appeared likely to make an additional contribution in the first quarter of this year. In January, manufacturers' book-value inventories increased at nearly twice the rate seen in the fourth quarter, while wholesale and retail inventories about kept pace with the advance in the previous quarter. The rapid buildup in inventories left the inventory-to-sales ratio unchanged rather than on the downtrend of recent years. However, the available evidence suggested that firms generally were not uncomfortable with their inventory positions.

The U.S. international trade deficit widened in January, primarily reflecting a surge in imported non-oil goods and services. After a general slowdown in the fourth quarter of last year, indicators for major foreign industrial countries revealed a broad pickup in economic growth in the first quarter, with industrial production rising in Japan and the major euro-area countries. Meanwhile, consumer price inflation across most industrial economies remained subdued. Among the emerging-market economies, indicators of economic activity were mixed.

Consumer prices edged higher in January after having been flat in December. Core consumer prices rose a bit faster than overall prices, with price increases widespread across commodities and services. Consumer energy prices fell in January but turned back up in February and early March. For the twelve-month period ended in January, overall consumer prices were boosted significantly by higher oil prices, but core consumer price inflation over the same period was fairly subdued. A survey measure of near-term inflation expectations moved up in early March, but long-term expectations had changed little since the end of last year. Producer prices and commodity indexes were broadly higher in January, with the exception of prices for core crude materials. With regard to labor costs, average hourly earnings rose slowly over January and February. Over the preceding year, compensation costs increased moderately, contributing to a small rise in unit labor costs.

At its February meeting, the Committee decided to increase the target federal funds rate 25 basis points, to 2½ percent. In its accompanying statement, the Committee indicated that the upside and downside risks to the attainment of both sustainable growth and price stability were roughly equal. In addition, the Committee noted that the economy appeared to be growing at a moderate rate despite increases in energy prices, that labor market conditions continued to improve gradually, and that inflation and inflation expectations remained well contained. As a consequence, the Committee again judged that policy accommodation could be removed at a pace that was likely to be measured, although the path of policy would depend importantly on evolving economic prospects.