The information available at the time of the meeting indicated that real gross domestic product (GDP) had expanded solidly so far this year. The pace of job gains had moderated since the beginning of the year, and the unemployment rate had moved up, on net, but remained low. Consumer price inflation was well below its year-earlier pace.

Consumer price inflation—as measured by the 12-month change in the price index for personal consumption expenditures (PCE)—had moved lower in August and September. Total PCE price inflation was 2.1 percent in September, and core PCE price inflation—which excludes changes in energy prices and many consumer food prices—was 2.7 percent.

Recent data suggested that labor market conditions remained solid. Average monthly nonfarm payroll gains in the third quarter were similar to those seen in the second quarter. October job gains were held down noticeably by the effects of strikes and hurricanes. The unemployment rate had edged down slightly since August and was 4.1 percent in October; the labor force participation rate also ticked down over this period, and the employment-to-population ratio was unchanged on net. The unemployment rates for African Americans and for Hispanics moved down; both rates were above those for Asians and for Whites. The ratio of job vacancies to unemployment was 1.1 in October, slightly lower than its level just before the pandemic. Average hourly earnings for all employees rose 4 percent over the 12 months ending in October, down 0.3 percentage point relative to a year earlier, and the 12-month change in the employment cost index of hourly compensation for private industry workers was 3.6 percent in September, down 0.7 percentage point from its year-earlier pace.

According to the advance release, real GDP posted a solid gain in the third quarter that was similar to its second-quarter pace. Real private domestic final purchases—which comprises PCE and private fixed investment and which often provides a better signal than GDP of underlying economic momentum—rose slightly faster than real GDP in the third quarter. Net exports were a drag on third-quarter real GDP growth, as a brisk rise in exports was outpaced by even faster import growth.

Real GDP growth in foreign economies picked up somewhat in the third quarter, including in the euro area and, especially, Mexico. In China, growth also firmed in the third quarter, and there were signs that recent fiscal stimulus measures were starting to shore up confidence. That said, more recent indicators, such as purchasing managers indexes (PMIs), continued to suggest ongoing weakness in foreign manufacturing, in part due to monetary policies still being restrictive.

Inflation abroad continued to ease. In the advanced AFEs excluding Japan, 12-month headline inflation slowed to near or below target levels, mainly reflecting the rapid pass-through of lower energy prices earlier this year. At the same time, services inflation remained high in these economies. In China, core inflation fell to its lowest level since the Global Financial Crisis. By contrast, in some Latin American countries, notably Brazil, inflation increased, partly because of renewed food price pressures.

Many foreign central banks eased policy during the intermeeting period, including the Bank of Canada and the European Central Bank among the AFEs and the central banks of Colombia, Mexico, Korea, the Philippines, and Thailand among the emerging market economies.