The expected path of the federal funds rate implied by financial market quotes increased notably over the intermeeting period amid stronger-than-expected data releases pertaining to economic activity, somewhat higher-than-expected readings on inflation, and comments by some FOMC participants that were interpreted as signaling a more gradual approach to recalibrating the stance of monetary policy. Consistent with a higher expected path of the federal funds rate and a shift in investors' perceptions of the balance of risks, nominal Treasury yields across the maturity spectrum increased significantly. The increase in longer-term yields appeared to be mostly attributable to higher term premiums—consistent with investors' perceived shift in the balance of risks away from outcomes characterized by slower real GDP growth and lower inflation. Market-based measures of inflation compensation moved up over the period from relatively low levels, while survey-based measures of longer-term inflation expectations were little changed. These measures continued to suggest an expectation that inflation would return over time to the Committee's 2 percent objective.

Despite higher yields, and amid greater confidence about the growth outlook and somewhat better-than-expected corporate earnings reports, broad equity price indexes increased notably, on net, over the intermeeting period, and credit spreads for both corporate and municipal bonds narrowed. The VIX rose appreciably, reportedly reflecting uncertainty about the outcome of the U.S. presidential election and escalating tensions in the Middle East. However, it subsequently more than retraced those increases, ending the period moderately lower and slightly below the median of its historical distribution.

Conditions in U.S. short-term funding markets remained generally stable over the intermeeting period, with the lowering of the target range for the federal funds rate in September fully passing through to both secured and unsecured reference rates. Rates in secured markets exhibited significant but temporary upward pressure around the September quarter-end, driven by typical quarter-end dynamics and a large net Treasury coupon settlement. Over the intermeeting period, government money market funds (MMFs) continued to increase allocations to Treasury bills and private repo in light of the generally favorable rates on these instruments; usage of the ON RRP facility declined significantly over the period.

Over the intermeeting period, foreign financial markets were driven by greater investor confidence in the U.S. economic outlook, foreign economic data releases, and political developments. Higher U.S. Treasury yields spilled over to foreign yields across the curve, though softer-than-expected inflation and PMI survey data weighed on short-term yields in the euro area. In the U.K., yields increased following the release of the new government's budget as market participants processed the budget's impact on projected inflation and gilt issuance. The broad dollar index increased significantly, as U.S. interest rates rose more than foreign rates. In China, the announcement of new policy stimulus measures boosted domestic risky asset prices, with limited spillovers to other markets; the announcements also drove notable flows into China-focused investment funds. Most European equity price indexes decreased somewhat, while Japanese and Canadian equity markets rose moderately.

In domestic credit markets, borrowing costs for households and most businesses rose over the intermeeting period from already elevated levels, primarily reflecting increases in longer-term Treasury yields. Rates on 30-year fixed-rate conforming residential mortgages rose, while interest rates on credit cards remained relatively unchanged at near historical highs. By contrast, interest rates on new auto loans edged down but remained elevated. Meanwhile, interest rates on commercial and industrial (C&I) loans and small business loans continued to be elevated. Yields also rose on an array of fixed-income securities, including commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS), investment- and speculative-grade corporate bonds, and residential mortgage-backed securities.

Over the intermeeting period, financing through capital markets and nonbank lenders remained broadly available for public corporations and for large and midsize private corporations. For smaller firms, however, credit availability remained relatively tight. In the October Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices (SLOOS), banks, on net, reported maintaining their lending standards and most terms basically unchanged for C&I loans. 2 Meanwhile, net growth in C&I loan balances remained subdued in August and September. With respect to commercial real estate (CRE) loans, banks in the October SLOOS reported, on balance, basically unchanged lending standards for all categories of CRE loans, the first survey since early 2022 in which standards on CRE loans of every category have not tightened. Bank CRE loan balances were flat in the third quarter, partly reflecting lending standards staying on the tighter end of the range prevailing since 2005.

Credit remained available for most consumers, although consumer credit availability continued to tighten moderately through September. Credit card balances expanded modestly in the third quarter, while auto credit growth continued to slow through August. In the October SLOOS, respondents, on net, indicated that standards for credit cards tightened, but most of them reported no change in lending standards for auto loans. Access to credit in the residential mortgage market was little changed, on balance, and continued to depend on borrowers' credit risk attributes. In the October SLOOS, banks, on net, moderately eased residential lending standards.

Credit quality remained solid in the cases of large and midsize firms, most home mortgage borrowers, and municipalities, but it continued to deteriorate in other sectors. The credit quality of nonfinancial firms borrowing in the corporate bond and leveraged loan markets remained stable. Delinquency rates on loans to small businesses remained modestly above pre-pandemic levels. Credit quality in the CRE market deteriorated further, with the average delinquency rate on loans in CMBS pools rising further in September, driven largely by office loans. Regarding household credit quality, delinquency rates on most residential mortgages were largely unchanged in September at about their historical low. Delinquency rates for credit cards increased a bit further in the third quarter, while delinquency rates on auto loans inched down.

The staff provided an update on its assessment of the stability of the U.S. financial system and, on balance, continued to characterize the system's financial vulnerabilities as notable. The staff judged that asset valuation pressures were elevated, with estimates of risk premiums across key markets low by historical standards. House prices remained elevated relative to fundamentals such as rents. Although the pace of decline in CRE prices slowed, fundamentals continued to deteriorate across multiple categories.

Vulnerabilities associated with business and household debt were characterized as moderate. Nonfinancial business leverage was elevated by historical standards, but the ability of publicly traded firms to service their debt remained strong, supported by robust earnings and the low interest rates that firms continued to enjoy on the portion of fixed-rate debt issued early in the pandemic. That said, the fraction of private firm debt having very low interest coverage ratios continued to increase, pointing to further deterioration in the balance sheets of riskier firms. Household balance sheets remained solid overall, as aggregate home equity remained high and delinquencies on mortgage loans continued to be low.

Vulnerabilities associated with leverage in the financial sector were characterized as notable. Regulatory capital ratios in the banking sector remained high; however, banks continued to hold large quantities of long-duration assets, leaving them more exposed than usual to an unexpected rise in longer-term interest rates. In the nonbank sector, leverage at hedge funds remained high, partly on account of the prevalence of the Treasury cash–futures basis trade. Life insurers' leverage remained somewhat elevated, and they continued to maintain large holdings of risky and illiquid securities. By contrast, broker-dealer leverage remained low, as their capital increased in line with their assets. Vulnerabilities associated with funding risks were also characterized as notable. Assets in prime MMFs and other runnable cash-management vehicles remained near historical highs. Life insurers' greater reliance on nontraditional liabilities suggested that adverse shocks to the industry could trigger substantial funding pressures at these firms.