At this meeting the Committee reviewed and discussed staff presentations on the topic of housing valuations and monetary policy. Prices of houses in the United States had risen sharply in recent years, especially in certain areas of the country, to very high levels relative to incomes or rents. In addition to local market factors, a wide range of influences appeared to be supporting home prices, including solid gains in disposable income, low mortgage rates, and financial innovation in the residential mortgage market. Prices might be somewhat above the levels consistent with these underlying factors, but measuring the extent of any overvaluation either nationally or in regional markets posed considerable conceptual and statistical difficulties. Meeting participants noted that the rise in house prices had been accompanied by a modest shift toward potentially riskier types of mortgages, including adjustable-rate and interest-only loans, which could pose challenges to both lenders and borrowers. Nonetheless, financial institutions generally remained in a comfortable capital position, such loans had performed well thus far, much of the associated risk had been transferred to other investors through securitization, and valuations had risen more rapidly than mortgage debt on average--so that loan-to-value ratios had fallen.

The information received at this meeting suggested that the economy was expanding at a moderate pace in the second quarter. Housing activity remained at a high level, business investment appeared to have improved some after a slowdown of growth in the first quarter, and manufacturing picked up notably in May. Supported by a rebound in motor vehicle purchases, consumer spending appeared on track to post another moderate gain for the quarter. Labor demand continued to expand, and the unemployment rate edged down further in May. Core CPI inflation slowed in April and May, but crude oil prices turned higher again following a decline earlier in the spring.

Averaging through a large gain in April and a more modest increase in May, growth in payroll employment was on par with that over the preceding six months. Payrolls expanded in line with their recent trends in the construction, transportation and utilities, and nonbusiness services sectors, while hiring in financial services slowed a bit, and the manufacturing sector posted further small losses of jobs. The average workweek of production or nonsupervisory workers edged up over the two-month period, helping to boost aggregate hours to the highest level since early 2001. The unemployment rate dipped to 5.1 percent in May. Meanwhile, the labor force participation rate moved up a bit, suggesting that the labor market had strengthened enough to attract some individuals back into the workforce. Survey indicators and the continued relatively low level of initial claims for unemployment insurance also supported the notion of continued improvement in the labor market.

Industrial production declined in April, owing to a dip in utilities output, but widespread gains in manufacturing output in May offset that loss. On net, industrial production was little changed over April and May; capacity utilization generally followed the same pattern as output.

Real personal consumption expenditures appeared to be increasing at a moderate pace this quarter, though a bit below that of the first quarter. Purchases of motor vehicles rebounded smartly after declining in the first quarter. Excluding motor vehicles, however, the expansion of real consumer outlays likely slowed of late, against a backdrop of modest gains in real income. Recent measures of consumer confidence improved from their levels earlier in the spring, when higher gasoline prices and concerns about a slowing in the pace of the economic expansion may have served as restraining influences.

Activity in the housing sector remained robust. Single-family starts averaged more than 1.65 million units at an annual rate in April and May, not much below the very strong first-quarter pace. Sales of both new and existing homes remained at a high level in May. While prices of existing homes continued to increase rapidly, new home prices showed signs of decelerating. Available indicators suggested that, with the ongoing support of low mortgage rates, the housing sector remained strong in June.

Spending on equipment and software registered a solid increase in the first quarter, and the available data suggested that second-quarter spending was continuing at a slightly faster pace. Shipments of nondefense capital goods posted sizable increases in recent months, although gains in orders were more uneven. Broadly speaking, the fundamentals continued to support business investment, with the user cost of capital still low and corporate balance sheets healthy. Outlays for construction of nonresidential structures appeared to have picked up some, but the level of such investment remained subdued. And although spending on commercial structures had moved up in recent months, outlays for office buildings were still at depressed levels, and expenditures on manufacturing and other facilities were lackluster.

The book value of manufacturing and trade inventories continued to grow in April, but more slowly than in the first quarter. With these increases, the inventory-sales ratio fell back in April after moving up a little in the first quarter.

After reaching a record high relative to GDP in February, the U.S. international trade deficit narrowed in March, but widened again in April. While the value of exports of goods and services increased in both months, the value of imports of goods and services jumped in April, more than offsetting a decline in March. GDP growth in most major foreign industrial economies picked up slightly in the first quarter, but recent economic indicators for the major foreign economies in the second quarter were mixed.

Consumer prices were about unchanged in May after posting large increases in the previous few months. Consumer energy prices, in particular, reversed part of their earlier run-up. Excluding food and energy, inflation appeared to have moderated slightly from its pace in the early part of the year. Despite this moderation, measures of core consumer price inflation over the past year were somewhat above those for the comparable period a year ago. The producer price index rose sharply in April, but dropped back again in May, driven largely by a swing in the food and energy components. According to recent surveys, both near-term and longer-term inflation expectations had changed little over the past two months, and market measures of inflation compensation had moved lower. With regard to labor costs, growth in hourly compensation in the nonfarm business sector in the first quarter was estimated to have slowed some after advancing notably in the fourth quarter; the first quarter increase was broadly similar to those posted during the middle of last year.

At its May meeting, the Federal Open Market Committee decided to increase the target level of the federal funds rate 25 basis points, to 3 percent. In its accompanying statement, the Committee expressed its perception that, with appropriate monetary policy action, the upside and downside risks to the attainment of both sustainable growth and price stability should be kept roughly equal. The Committee also noted that recent data suggested that the solid pace of spending growth had slowed somewhat, partly in response to the earlier increases in energy prices, but that labor market conditions apparently continued to improve gradually. While pressures on inflation had picked up in recent months and pricing power was more evident, longer-term inflation expectations remained well contained. In these circumstances, the Committee believed that policy accommodation could be removed at a pace that would likely be measured but noted that it would respond to changes in economic prospects as needed to fulfill its obligation to maintain price stability.