In the staff forecast prepared for this meeting, the economy was seen as likely to expand this year and next at a rate just above its potential. The effects of reduced monetary and fiscal policy stimulus were expected to be counterbalanced by continued low long-term interest rates and an abatement of energy-related headwinds. Household spending was expected to firm going forward as real income posts solid gains attributable in part to the ongoing improvement in the labor market. Business investment was projected to benefit from the combination of favorable prospects for sales, supportive financial markets, and the ongoing need to replace or upgrade aging equipment and software. A slightly larger portion of domestic demand was expected to be supplied by imports over the forecast period. The forecast for consumer price inflation was revised up, with inflation seen as somewhat higher this year than in 2004, reflecting in part higher import prices and the direct and indirect effects of higher energy prices, and only edging lower next year as these price pressures wane.

In their discussion of current conditions and the economic outlook, many meeting participants noted that incoming data had been reassuring about the strength of the expansion. Following some softer readings earlier in the year, incoming spending and production data over the intermeeting period indicated that the expansion remained firm, led by residential and business investment. In addition, labor market conditions continued to strengthen gradually. The economy evidently had been resilient in the face of rising energy prices, and financial conditions remained accommodative, supporting growth going forward. Increases in core consumer prices had slowed of late, though underlying inflation was still seen by most meeting participants as likely to be modestly higher this year than last, impelled in part by the pass-through of a further rise in energy prices. However, the impetus to inflation from the prices of oil and other commodities was expected to wane, and long-term inflation expectations apparently remained well-anchored. With some limited remaining slack in labor markets likely damping growth in compensation, as well as further withdrawal of policy accommodation, core inflation was expected to remain contained.

In preparation for the Federal Reserve's semiannual report to the Congress on monetary policy, the members of the Board of Governors and the presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks submitted individual projections of the growth of GDP, the rate of unemployment, and core consumer price inflation for 2005 and 2006. The forecasts of the rate of expansion in real GDP were concentrated in the upper part of a 3 to 3-3/4 percent range for 2005, and the forecasts for 2006 were concentrated at the lower end of a range of 3-1/4 to 3-3/4 percent. These rates of growth were associated with a civilian unemployment rate of 5 to 5-1/4 percent in the fourth quarter of this year and a rate of 5 percent in the fourth quarter of 2006. Forecasts of the rate of inflation, as measured by the core PCE price index, were mainly near the middle of a 1-1/2 to 2-1/4 percent range this year and somewhat below the middle of a range of 1-1/2 to 2-1/2 percent next year.