In their comments about developments in key sectors of the economy, meeting participants noted that the fundamentals underlying household spending remained firm. With rising home and equity prices buoying household wealth, consumer expenditures continued to advance. Although the recent surge in energy prices was anticipated to impose some drag for a time, consumption spending was expected to grow about in line with income going forward, in an environment of further gradual improvements in labor markets. Increased speculative activity in housing markets was evident in some parts of the country, but robust demand for new homes owed in large part to the ongoing economic expansion and low long-term interest rates.

Business outlays for capital goods continued to rise, and the outlook for investment spending remained solid, supported by increased sales, low interest rates, robust profits, and strong business balance sheets. Anecdotal reports from industry contacts generally pointed to planned increases in investment spending, though in some regions businesses apparently remained cautious about the outlook. Conditions in the commercial real estate sector, which had been weak for some time, were said to have improved in some parts of the nation.

Several meeting participants expressed some concern about domestic and global imbalances. Large federal budget deficits were expected to persist despite an increase in tax receipts in recent months. These deficits were contributing to a low level of national saving that would, if not corrected over time, ultimately constrain investment and overall economic growth. Moreover, U.S. trade deficits were expected to remain large going forward, reflecting both the low level of U.S. saving and relatively slow growth in some of our trading partners. Uncertainties regarding the nature and timing of the potential correction of these imbalances complicated the assessment of the intermediate-term prospects for the U.S. economy.

In their discussion of developments in asset markets, the participants' comments focused on two related issues: the low level of long-term interest rates and the continued run-up in home prices. Despite substantial cumulative policy tightening over the past year, long-term Treasury yields had moved considerably lower, implying a significant flattening of the yield curve (measured as the spread between long-term and short-term Treasury yields). Lower compensation for inflation accounted for a portion of the decline in longer-term nominal yields, but a larger portion reflected reductions in real yields. Participants cited a variety of factors as possibly contributing to the unusual behavior of long-term rates over this period. For one, investors might have marked down the level of real interest rates seen as likely to be necessary to contain inflation and keep output in line with potential--perhaps reflecting weak investment demand abroad relative to saving--or even might have come to expect a stretch of sub-par U.S. growth. However, anticipation of slow growth seemed inconsistent with higher stock prices and thin risk spreads in corporate debt markets. The behavior of long-term interest rates could also reflect reduced uncertainty on the part of investors about the economic outlook -- as seen in low readings of implied volatility in bond and equity markets. Finally, demands for longer-term U.S. securities by both domestic and foreign investors might have been boosted by special factors. Confidence about the economic outlook and low market interest rates--along with possibly outsized expectations of capital gains in some markets--could also help to account for the high level of home prices the Committee had discussed on the first day of the meeting. It was agreed that considerable uncertainty attended the outlook for both long-term interest rates and home prices.

With regard to any role for monetary policy in responding to possible imbalances in housing or bond markets, meeting participants stressed the importance of the pursuit of their core objectives of price stability and maximum sustainable economic growth. To the extent that an asset price movement threatened the achievement of those objectives, it would of course be taken into consideration in setting policy. However, given the unavoidable uncertainties associated with judgments regarding the appropriate level of and likely future movements in asset prices, a strategy of responding more directly to possible mispricing was seen as very unlikely to contribute, on balance, to the achievement of the Committee's objectives over time.

Participants' views on the inflation outlook were mixed. Thus far in 2005, core consumer price inflation had been higher than most participants had expected at the start of the year, reflecting, at least in part, the pass-through effects of higher energy, commodity, and import prices. While such shocks could be expected to boost inflation temporarily, some participants expressed concern that, with policy still accommodative, the underlying pace of inflation might be in the process of stepping up, perhaps to a level that was at the upper end of the range that they viewed as compatible with the Committee's price stability objective. The degree of slack remaining in labor and resource markets was very uncertain, and unit labor costs in the nonfarm business sector had moved notably higher in recent quarters. Trend unit labor costs could also be boosted by slower growth in structural productivity; while recent evidence was not conclusive, some participants thought the underlying pace of productivity growth might well fall back in coming quarters following the substantial gains seen in recent years. And with higher energy prices already eating into profit margins at firms outside the energy sector, increases in unit labor costs might be more likely to be passed through into prices.

While agreeing that inflation developments had to be watched carefully, other meeting participants emphasized that recent core inflation data had been relatively restrained, and anecdotal reports suggested that pricing power at many firms remained quite limited. Moreover, readings from futures markets suggested that oil prices would likely flatten out, so their effect on inflation should gradually ebb. Similarly, prices of other commodities and imports, which had surged for a time, were now moderating. Survey and market measures of long-term inflation expectations did not suggest that the earlier higher inflation readings were going to persist. Finally, while the degree of slack in labor markets was uncertain, total labor compensation had probably been boosted temporarily around the turn of the year by special factors, and the recent behavior of a range of other indicators of labor costs appeared consistent with some remaining slack that would likely tend to restrain inflation pressures. Moreover, anecdotal reports of labor market conditions continued to point to shortages of labor only for certain, mostly skilled, occupations.