The information available at the time of the meeting indicated that real gross domestic product (GDP) continued to expand at a solid pace, particularly after accounting for the effects of the federal government shutdown in the fourth quarter of last year. The unemployment rate was little changed in recent months, though job gains continued to be low. Consumer price inflation remained elevated.

Total consumer price inflation—as measured by the 12-month change in the personal consumption expenditures (PCE) price index—was 2.8 percent in January. Core PCE price inflation, which excludes changes in consumer energy prices and many consumer food prices, was 3.1 percent in January. Both total and core inflation measures were about 1/4 percentage point higher than their levels a year earlier. Core goods price inflation had picked up over that period, a development that the staff largely attributed to the effects of higher tariffs. Core services price inflation had declined relative to a year earlier, led by a slowing in housing services price inflation, while core nonhousing services price inflation was little changed. Based on data from the consumer price index and the producer price index, the staff estimated that total PCE price inflation was 2.8 percent in February, while core PCE price inflation was 3.0 percent.

The unemployment rate was 4.4 percent in February, the same as its level in September of 2025. The average monthly change in total payroll employment was low over January and February. The effects of a strike in the health-care sector and unusually harsh winter weather weighed on payrolls in February, but those effects were expected to unwind in March. The employment cost index increased 3.4 percent over the 12 months ending in December, and average hourly earnings rose 3.8 percent over the 12 months ending in February; both measures were slightly below their year-earlier levels.

Real GDP growth was solid last year, although it was held down in the fourth quarter by the effects of the federal government shutdown. Available indicators suggested that real GDP growth had picked up in the first quarter of this year, partially boosted by the unwinding of the effects of the government shutdown. Real private domestic final purchases (PDFP)—which comprises PCE and private fixed investment and which often provides a better signal of underlying economic momentum than does GDP—rose at a faster pace than real GDP last year. Available indicators suggested that real PDFP growth in the first quarter had stepped up from its pace last year. Incoming data indicated that real goods exports rose sharply at the start of the year after having fallen in the fourth quarter. After surging in November and December, real goods imports remained about flat in January, as continued strong imports of high-tech goods were offset by declines in imports of consumer goods.

Economic activity abroad continued to expand at a moderate pace in the fourth quarter, largely supported by strong high-tech exports from Mexico and several Asian economies. By contrast, real GDP grew only modestly in the euro area and in the U.K., and it contracted in Canada. Recent data pointed to foreign GDP having continued to expand at a moderate pace so far this year.

Foreign headline inflation generally remained near central banks' targets, despite still-elevated services price inflation in some economies. Some measures of near-term inflation expectations increased, as energy and other commodity prices surged with the Middle East conflict. Over the intermeeting period, most foreign central banks kept their policies on hold, although the Reserve Bank of Australia raised its policy rate 25 basis points in March, citing inflationary pressures stemming from tight resource utilization.