Over the intermeeting period, the market-implied expected path of the federal funds rate moved higher, largely reflecting a shift in the anticipated timing of easing toward the end of this year. The two-year nominal Treasury yield increased, on net, primarily driven by higher inflation compensation, consistent with rising near-term inflation concerns tied to surging energy prices following developments in the Middle East. By contrast, the 10-year nominal Treasury yield was little changed on net.

Broad equity price indexes declined and the one-month option-implied volatility on the S&P 500 index increased notably, as concerns about Middle East developments appeared to weaken investor confidence. Stocks of firms in sectors exposed to potential disruptions caused by AI, such as software, declined more notably.

In advanced foreign economies, the surge in energy prices led to notable increases in measures of short-term inflation compensation and sovereign bond yields. The broad dollar index increased moderately, as both a deterioration in market risk sentiment and the status of the U.S. as a net energy exporter supported the dollar. Foreign equity prices decreased modestly, on net, but were volatile. Sovereign credit spreads widened in many emerging market economies, especially in those economies most reliant on energy imports.

Conditions in U.S. short-term funding markets remained orderly over the intermeeting period. The effective federal funds rate was unchanged, and average spreads in both secured and unsecured funding markets were generally stable. Ongoing RMPs appeared to help support stable money market conditions and to damp upward pressure on repo rates.

In domestic credit markets, financing conditions remained somewhat restrictive for households and small businesses while remaining neutral for medium-sized businesses and municipalities. Conditions remained somewhat restrictive for commercial real estate (CRE) because of a combination of high financing costs and relatively tight underwriting requirements. Although borrowing costs continued to be elevated relative to their average levels since the Global Financial Crisis (GFC), credit flows to medium-sized and large businesses were strong, and corporate debt spreads remained narrow by historical standards. However, firms judged to have significant exposure to AI disruption saw sharp increases in their borrowing costs.

Credit continued to be generally available to most businesses, households, and municipalities. By contrast, credit to households with lower credit scores and to small businesses remained somewhat tight. In the residential mortgage market, the volume of mortgage refinancing increased, but home-purchase borrowing remained subdued. Credit remained readily available for qualified borrowers who met standard conforming loan criteria.

The credit performance of corporate bonds remained solid for both investment- and speculative-grade firms and was supported by robust profits at large corporations. The 12-month trailing default rate declined to around the 25th percentile of its post-GFC range. Market-implied measures of year-ahead expected defaults were little changed and were near the median of their historical distributions. Likewise, the credit performance of leveraged loans was little changed. Overall delinquency rates for small businesses, CRE, mortgages insured by the Federal Housing Administration, and consumer loans remained elevated. In addition, investor concerns about private credit appeared to be increasing because of the sector's high exposure to software-related business loans that were vulnerable to AI disruption.