At its meeting on August 22, 2000, the Committee adopted a directive that called for maintaining conditions in reserve markets consistent with an unchanged federal funds rate of about 6-1/2 percent. In reaching their decision, the members noted that decelerating demand and surging productivity seemed to have narrowed the gap between the growth rates of aggregate demand and potential supply, even though previous policy tightening actions had not yet exerted their full restraining effects. The members emphasized, however, that unusually taut labor markets could result in greater upward pressures on unit costs and prices, especially if productivity growth were to level out or edge lower in the future, and they agreed that the statement accompanying the announcement of their decision should continue to indicate that the risks remained weighted mainly in the direction of rising inflation.

Open market operations throughout the intermeeting period were directed toward maintaining the federal funds rate at the Committee's targeted level of 6-1/2 percent, and the average rate was close to the intended level. Most short- and intermediate-term interest rates moved lower over the interval, though long-term yields changed little or drifted slightly higher. Market expectations about the near-term prospects for interest rates were revised downward in response to both the Committee's statement after the August meeting, which was interpreted as expressing greater confidence that growth rates of aggregate demand and aggregate supply were coming into better alignment, and to subsequent data releases, which were seen as confirming earlier indications of some slowing in the economic expansion. Against a background of some upward pressure on long-term Treasury yields and of growing concerns about corporate earnings, most broad indexes of stock market prices declined somewhat over the intermeeting period.

In foreign exchange markets, the trade-weighted value of the dollar increased somewhat further on balance in terms of an index of major foreign currencies. The dollar's net appreciation against the euro occurred despite a small policy tightening by the ECB on August 31 as sentiment toward that currency remained negative, in part because of concerns about capital flows out of the euro area. The major industrial countries undertook joint foreign exchange intervention late in the period, on September 22, to stem the euro's slide. The intervention was at the initiative of the ECB and was joined by the United States and other nations because of shared concern about the potential implications of recent movements in the euro. The dollar also posted gains against the currencies of a number of other important trading partners, notably the Brazilian real and the Mexican peso.

The broad monetary aggregates had expanded relatively briskly in recent months. The growth of M2, perhaps reflecting the recent vigor of consumer spending, picked up considerably in August and September after having increased slowly in June and July. Averaged across the past four months, however, M2 increased at a pace noticeably below that of earlier in the year, with the slowdown partly reflecting a lagged response to a widening, during the first half of the year, of the opportunity costs of holding M2 assets. M3 expansion remained robust in August and September, though somewhat below the pace in the first half of the year. The growth of domestic nonfinancial debt slowed somewhat in July and August in association with some moderation in the brisk pace of private borrowing that was offset in part by a less rapid paydown of federal debt.