The information reviewed at this meeting suggested that economic activity was expanding at a more moderate pace than in the first half of the year. The moderation reflected lower growth in most major expenditure sectors. As a result of the deceleration in aggregate demand, expansion of employment and industrial production had slowed. Rising energy prices had boosted overall price inflation considerably, but core measures of consumer inflation had increased substantially less.

Total nonfarm payroll employment dropped further in August, in part reflecting additional large declines in the number of temporary Census workers. In the private sector, a labor strike held down the August rise in payroll employment, but even after adjusting for the effects of the strike, the pace of private job gains in the July-August period fell considerably from the rate for the first half of the year. The slowdown was particularly pronounced in the construction, manufacturing, and services sectors. The civilian unemployment rate edged up to 4.1 percent in August.

Total industrial production rose only slightly on balance during July and August after having registered strong gains earlier in the year. The pace of production of high-tech equipment remained rapid, though not at the extraordinary rates posted earlier in the year, and softer conditions had emerged in a number of manufacturing industries, including steel, trucks, motor vehicles, and construction supplies. Because of the weakness in production, the rate of capacity utilization in manufacturing edged down to a level slightly below its long-term average.

Consumer spending picked up somewhat in July and August from a moderate rate of increase in the second quarter. Real personal consumption expenditures on durable goods surged in the July-August period, spending on nondurable goods picked up somewhat less, and consumption of services decelerated a little. The recent strengthening of consumer spending occurred against the background of moderate growth of real disposable income in recent quarters but generally buoyant consumer sentiment.

With interest rates on fixed-rate mortgages having fallen significantly since mid-May and consumers' assessments of homebuying conditions having risen recently, single-family housing starts picked up somewhat in August. However, such starts were still sharply below their levels of early in the year, likely reflecting in part the recent smaller gains in income and employment and the flattening out of equity prices thus far this year. New home sales picked up in July (latest data), though that gain might have been overstated as a result of problems with estimation procedures, and existing home sales bounced back in August, roughly offsetting a drop in July. Multifamily starts, by contrast, declined further in August even though vacancy rates remained low and apartment rents continued to rise.

The available information suggested that business investment in durable equipment and software increased substantially further in the third quarter. Data on shipments of nondefense capital goods in July and August indicated that outlays for high-tech equipment, notably computing and communications equipment, remained quite strong. For other types of equipment, spending growth seemed to be have moderated somewhat after the substantial gains of the first half of the year. Information on orders for nondefense capital goods pointed to further slowing in the pace of spending increases in coming months. Nonresidential construction activity fell in July but market fundamentals, including rising property values and lower vacancy rates, suggested the likelihood of further expansion in nonresidential investment, particularly in office buildings.

Business inventory investment decreased sharply in July after a large second-quarter advance. Much of the slowdown was associated with a runoff of stocks of motor vehicles at wholesalers and automotive dealerships. Elsewhere, stockbuilding eased a little and sales decelerated somewhat. Inventory-sales ratios generally were within their ranges for the preceding twelve months, and there seemed to be only a few scattered indications of inventory imbalances at the industry level.

The U.S. trade deficit in goods and services widened considerably in July from its June level, with the dollar value of exports retracing part of its extraordinary June increase and the value of imports rising further. The drop in exports was concentrated in aircraft and automotive products while the advance in imports was largely in industrial supplies, automotive products, and services. The available information indicated that economic expansion in the foreign industrial countries had slowed somewhat in the third quarter from the robust growth during the first half of the year, primarily reflecting reduced economic expansion in Japan. Growth appeared to be somewhat uneven among the developing countries in the third quarter but remained solid on balance.

Recent information continued to indicate a slight pickup in price inflation. Consumer prices edged up on balance over July and August, despite a net drop in energy prices; excluding the food and energy components, consumer price inflation remained moderate in both months. On a year-over-year basis, however, core consumer prices increased somewhat more in the twelve months ended in August than in the previous twelve-month period. Core producer prices edged up over the July-August period and decelerated a little on a year-over-year basis. With regard to labor costs, average hourly earnings of production or nonsupervisory workers rose moderately in July and August. The advance for the twelve months ended in August was slightly larger than that for the previous twelve-month period.