In the Committee's discussion of current and prospective economic developments, members referred to recent statistical and anecdotal information that tended to confirm earlier indications of appreciable slowing in the pace of the expansion from the outsized increases experienced in the latter part of 1999 and the first half of this year. Several commented that growth of aggregate demand now appeared to be closer to, and perhaps slightly below, the rate of expansion in the nation's output potential. Looking ahead, they generally anticipated that the softening in equity prices and the rise in interest rates that had occurred earlier in the year would contribute to keeping growth in demand at a more subdued but still relatively robust pace. The members recognized that marked uncertainties surrounded any forecast in present circumstances. Those uncertainties had been augmented by recent developments in world oil markets and continued to include questions about the extent of further gains in productivity, the effects of such gains on the growth of aggregate demand as well as supply, and the associated degree of prospective pressures on resources and inflation. In the latter regard, members anticipated that even assuming reduced economic growth in line with their forecasts and further impressive gains in productivity, conditions in labor markets were likely to remain relatively tight, and risks persisted that at some point such tightness could exert upward pressures on labor costs and prices.

Developments in world oil markets also might exert continued upward pressure on inflation, while at the same time posing a downward risk to economic activity. Uncertainties relating to political events in the Middle East superimposed on limited available inventories of oil products held by producers and refiners had fostered recent "spikes" in oil prices. While price quotations in futures markets pointed to a decline in oil prices over time, such prices might well remain relatively elevated for a extended period, with negative effects on spending and inflation. There already were scattered signs that higher energy prices, by reducing income available for discretionary purchases, might be damping retail sales. Moreover, to the extent that relatively high oil prices persisted, they were likely to have increasing passthrough effects on core measures of inflation as well as on "headline" inflation, especially if the energy price increases began to affect inflation expectations. However, the course of oil prices was very difficult to predict not only because of political and market uncertainties but in part also because of the lack of information about the extent of what appeared to be a precautionary buildup of fuel supplies by households and retail businesses.

In their review of the outlook for household spending, members cited a number of developments that pointed to slower but continuing growth. With some exceptions, anecdotal reports from various parts of the country suggested a recent softening in retail sales, and some industry contacts indicated that they were marking down their forecasts of retail sales. A flat and volatile stock market and the rise in energy costs appeared to be key factors currently tending to inhibit growth in consumer spending at least to some extent. On the positive side, continuing gains in consumer incomes and a high level of consumer confidence could be expected to foster sustained growth in such spending, albeit probably at a pace below recent trends.

With regard to the outlook for residential construction, anecdotal reports indicated some softening in housing activity in many parts of the country, though some members cited regional evidence of a partial rebound recently that was attributed to declines in mortgage interest rates. However, financial factors, including mortgage interest rates at levels still appreciably above earlier lows and the sideways performance of the stock market, were expected to constrain housing activity somewhat over coming quarters, though such activity likely would remain on a relatively high plateau.

In their comments about the prospects for business fixed investment, members cited some indications that the expansion in business spending for equipment and software might be moderating from the extraordinary pace of recent years, though growth in such expenditures probably would remain robust. Retarding influences bearing on the outlook for investment expenditures included forecasts of slower growth in final demand and less favorable financial conditions, notably weakness in the equity prices of numerous "new economy" firms and tightening credit availability for business firms that did not enjoy investment-grade credit ratings or favorable earnings prospects. Evidence of overbuilding in some areas of commercial and other nonresidential real estate also was mentioned. Against this background, some members referred to a growing sense of caution among business- and financial-sector executives about undertaking or financing business investments. At the same time, the incentive to take advantage of increasingly efficient high-tech equipment and software typically available at declining prices would continue to provide an important underpinning for further large gains in investment spending, with favorable implications for continued rapid growth in productivity.

In their assessment of the outlook for inflation, members agreed that although forecasts of more moderate growth in aggregate demand at a pace around potential output had substantially reduced the odds on rising inflation, the risks still were pointed in that direction on balance. Even so, any increase in inflation was likely to be modest and gradual and was subject to substantial uncertainty for a variety of reasons. As noted previously, the behavior of oil prices was one highly uncertain source of potentially greater inflation pressures. Another major source of uncertainty was the prospective performance of productivity. Largely as a consequence of rapidly expanding "new economy" investments, gains in productivity had occurred at remarkable rates in recent years. However, the anticipated moderation in the expansion of economic activity and the related softening in expected returns on such investments might well restrain the further expansion of investment spending and limit the associated pickup in productivity. Once productivity growth tended to level out, employers would find it more difficult to offset the rise in their costs that might occur should tight labor markets persist. Finally, a decline in the dollar from its current level, should that happen, might add to inflation pressures going forward. On the more positive side, there were no signs that the pace of productivity gains was currently leveling out and no evidence of rising longer-term inflation expectations. Moreover, cost pressures and price inflation had remained subdued for an extended period despite low rates of unemployment that in the past had been associated with increasing inflation.

Against the backdrop of these uncertainties and the current performance of the economy, all the Committee members indicated that they favored an unchanged policy stance for the intermeeting period ahead. In support of this view, they placed considerable weight on widespread indications, reinforced by developments since the August meeting, that growth in aggregate demand had moderated appreciably to a pace that improved the prospects for containing pressures on resources. Moreover, the tightening that had occurred in financial conditions through the spring and the rise in energy prices since the fall of 1998 had not yet exerted their full effects on aggregate demand, and members expected these effects to contribute to a more sustainable rate of growth in aggregate spending. Although inflation had picked up, a decline in energy prices, should it materialize in line with market expectations, clearly would have favorable implications for inflation expectations and cost pressures in the economy. Questions nonetheless remained regarding the extent and duration of the slowdown in the economic expansion and the other factors bearing on the outlook for inflation, especially against the backdrop of substantial pressures on labor resources.

All the members agreed that their views regarding the outlook for inflation were consistent with retaining the press release sentence indicating that the risks remained weighted toward higher inflation over time. Some expressed the opinion that those risks were now less decidedly tilted to the upside and that a reconsideration of the sentence might be warranted over the next several months, but they believed that a change at this point would be premature. While the prospects of a significant rise in inflation seemed quite limited for the nearer term, the members agreed on the need to remain especially vigilant for signs of potentially rising inflation over the intermediate term, particularly since any increase in inflation would occur from a level that in the view of many members was already on the high side of an acceptable range.