At its meeting on March 21, 2000, the Committee adopted a directive that called for a slight tightening of conditions in reserve markets consistent with an increase of ¼ percentage point in the federal funds rate to an average of about 6 percent. The members saw substantial risks of rising pressures on labor and other resources and of higher inflation, and they agreed that the tightening action would help bring the growth of aggregate demand into better alignment with the sustainable expansion of aggregate supply. They also noted that even with this additional firming the risks were still weighted mainly in the direction of rising inflation pressures and that more tightening might be needed.

Open market operations during the intermeeting period were directed toward implementing the desired slightly tighter pressure on reserve positions, and the federal funds rate averaged very close to the Committee's 6 percent target. The Committee's action and its announcement were widely anticipated and had little initial effect on financial markets. Later in the week, however, market interest rates moved up in response to the release of the minutes of the February meeting and the mention therein of some sentiment for a larger policy tightening than had been undertaken. Subsequently, interest rates fell as stock prices tumbled over the first half of April, when investors seemed to revise downward their assessments of equity valuations, especially those of more speculative technology shares that previously had risen considerably. Interest rates more than reversed those declines, however, when stock prices began to level out and incoming data suggested that aggregate demand continued to expand faster than potential supply and that wage and price developments were becoming more worrisome. On balance over the intermeeting period, private interest rates moved up appreciably while Treasury yields increased somewhat less. Most major indexes of equity prices declined significantly over the intermeeting period.

In foreign exchange markets, the trade-weighted value of the dollar appreciated considerably over the intermeeting period against a basket of major currencies, reflecting in part the larger intermeeting increase in U.S. long-term yields relative to rates in most foreign industrial countries. The dollar's rise against the euro was sizable, but the dollar also made moderate gains against the British pound, the Japanese yen, and the Canadian dollar. The dollar also appreciated somewhat against the currencies of a group of other important trading partners, notably the Mexican peso and the Brazilian real.

Growth of M2 picked up further in April from its already strong pace in March, as households boosted their liquid balances to meet higher-than-usual levels of final payments on 1999 taxes. In contrast, M3 growth slowed considerably in April after a robust March advance. From the fourth quarter of 1999 through April, M2 and M3 expanded at rates well above the upper ends of their annual ranges for 2000. Total domestic nonfinancial debt continued to expand at a pace in the upper portion of its range.