The staff forecast prepared for this meeting continued to suggest that the expansion would gradually moderate from its currently elevated pace to a rate around, or perhaps a little below, the growth of the economy's estimated potential. The expansion of domestic final demand increasingly would be held back by the anticipated waning of positive wealth effects associated with earlier large gains in equity prices and by higher interest rates. As a result, the growth of spending on consumer durables and houses was expected to slow; in contrast, however, overall business investment in equipment and software was projected to remain robust, partly because of the upward trend in replacement demand, especially for computers and software. In addition, continued solid economic growth abroad was expected to boost the growth of U.S. exports for some period ahead. Core price inflation was projected to rise noticeably over the forecast horizon, partly as a result of higher import prices and some firming of gains in nominal labor compensation in persistently tight labor markets that would not be fully offset by productivity growth.

In the Committee's review of current and prospective economic and financial developments, members focused on persisting indications that aggregate demand was expanding more rapidly than potential supply and that pressures on labor and other producer resources were continuing to increase. While there were tentative signs that the growth in demand might be moderating in some key sectors of the economy, such as retail sales and housing, clear-cut evidence of any significant deceleration in the rapid growth of aggregate demand was lacking. Bond yields and other financial conditions had firmed to some extent recently, but those adjustments had been influenced by the buildup in market expectations of more monetary policy tightening. In the absence of further monetary restraint, any slowing over coming quarters was not viewed as likely to be sufficient to avert increasing pressures on the economy's already strained resources and rising inflation rates that would undermine the economy's remarkable performance. Adding to concerns about heightened inflation pressures was statistical and anecdotal evidence that could be read as suggesting that underlying inflation already was beginning to pick up. Unit costs, however, were still remarkably subdued and members saw no developments at this stage that might augur a sharp near-term deterioration in price inflation.

In their assessment of business conditions across the country, members commented on continuing indications of robust economic activity in all regions and widely increasing pressures on labor and other resources. Indeed, economic activity appeared to have grown appreciably further from already elevated levels in numerous parts of the country, although the latest regional data and anecdotal reports provided scattered indications that business conditions might be starting to soften in some areas. In this regard, members referred to the emergence of slightly more cautious attitudes on the part of some business executives concerning the prospects for their industries.

With respect to developments in key expenditure sectors of the economy, growth in consumer spending was expected to slow from the exceptional pace of the first quarter, though still likely to be relatively robust. Retail sales had edged lower in April, but members commented that it was too early to gauge whether this softening was a harbinger of a more moderate trend. Consumer sentiment had remained upbeat in the context of an extended period of sizable expansion in employment and incomes and the sharp rise in stock market prices over the course of recent years. Some members observed that the slightly less ebullient consumer behavior recently might have been influenced to some extent by the volatility and downward movement in the stock market over the course of the past several weeks. Higher financing costs probably also were beginning to play a role. Looking ahead, the experience of recent years amply demonstrated the difficulty of forecasting the performance of the stock market. The failure of further large increases to materialize, should that occur, would over time imply a more neutral or even a negative net impact from wealth once the positive effects of the earlier advance had played themselves out, but the latter would take some time.

The same background factors were likely to govern the prospective behavior of housing activity. The evidence of a downturn in homebuilding was still quite marginal, but some anecdotal reports suggested that higher mortgage rates were starting to exert a retarding influence on housing demand. Even so, members continued to identify areas of remarkable strength across the nation, and overall housing construction remained at an elevated level. On the assumption of further growth in jobs and incomes in line with current forecasts and absent markedly higher mortgage financing costs, housing activity might reasonably be expected to settle at a level a bit below recent highs.

Business investment spending retained strong upward momentum, though it had exhibited an uneven growth pattern in recent quarters that importantly reflected Y2K effects. Looking ahead, further rapid growth was expected in spending for business equipment and software in light of likely ongoing efforts to hold down costs by substituting capital embodying advanced technology for scarce labor resources. Recent order trends and rising capacity utilization rates were consistent with this expectation. Expenditures on nonresidential structures and other construction generally had strengthened in recent months, and members expected them to be well maintained in part because of heavy spending on roads and other public projects by state and local governments.

The foreign trade sector of the economy was projected to provide less of a safety valve for the accommodation of domestic demand going forward. Although a number of foreign nations continued to face political and economic problems, the strengthening economies of many U.S. trading partners would tend to limit the availability of excess foreign production capacity to help meet the growth in U. S. demand. At the same time, foreign demand for U.S. goods and services would be expanding, thereby adding to demand pressures on U.S. producer resources, other things equal. In the latter regard, several members mentioned anecdotal evidence of growing export demand for a variety of domestic products.

In their discussion of the outlook for inflation, the members focused on statistical and anecdotal indications of further tightening of labor resources, acceleration in some measures of labor compensation, and early signs of a possible upturn in underlying price inflation. Data on employment, reinforced by anecdotal commentary from around the country, continued to provide evidence of extremely tight labor markets, which at least in some parts of the country appeared to have tightened further since early in the year. Business contacts spoke of spending a great deal of time and expense to attract and retain workers while concomitantly persisting in efforts to improve the productivity of their operations to accommodate burgeoning growth in demand in the face of labor force constraints. There were more reports that rising wages and benefits and increasing costs of nonlabor inputs could no longer be fully offset by improvements in productivity, and more business firms appeared to be attempting or considering increases in their selling prices to maintain or improve their profit margins. However, their ability to set higher prices, or at least to raise them significantly, continued to be severely constrained by the persistence of strong competition across much of the economy. Indeed, examples of successful efforts to mark up prices, which tended to be concentrated in products using oil-related inputs, were still the exception. Even so, the members believed that the risks of acceleration in core prices were now appreciably higher given current trends in aggregate demand, pressures on resources, and developments in foreign economies.