The information reviewed at this meeting suggested that economic growth had remained rapid through early spring. Consumer spending and business fixed investment were still trending upward strongly, and housing demand was holding at a high level. Industrial production and nonfarm payrolls were expanding briskly in response to burgeoning domestic demand, but the strength of demand was also showing through in the form of rising imports. Labor markets continued to be very tight, and some measures of labor costs and price inflation showed signs that they might be picking up.

Employment surged in March and April. Part of the pickup resulted from a step-up in government hiring of census workers, but gains in private employment were very large over the two months. Job growth in retail trade and services was robust, and employment in manufacturing and construction trended higher. The civilian unemployment rate dropped in April to 3.9 percent, a thirty-year low.

Industrial production accelerated in April after a strong gain in the first quarter. Manufacturing, notably in high-tech industries, led the way, but growth in mining and utilities also was sizable. The pickup in manufacturing lifted the factory operating rate further, and capacity utilization in April was about equal to its long-term average.

Consumer spending increased very rapidly in the first quarter but apparently decelerated early in the second quarter. Nominal retail sales were down slightly in April after brisk gains in February and March. Sales slumped at durable goods stores and changed little at nondurable goods outlets. However, the underlying trend in spending remained strong as a result of robust expansion of disposable incomes, the large accumulated gains in household wealth, and very positive consumer sentiment.

Residential housing activity stayed at an elevated level in April; total private housing starts edged higher while starts of multifamily units partially reversed a sharp drop in March. Sales of both new and existing single-family homes rose in March (latest data). The persisting strong demand for housing during a period of rising mortgage rates apparently was being underpinned by the rapid growth of jobs and the accumulated gains in stock market wealth.

Business fixed investment was up sharply in the first quarter after a sluggish performance late last year. The pickup encompassed both durable equipment and software and nonresidential structures. Shipments of computing and communications equipment surged following the century rollover, and shipments of other non-aircraft capital goods recorded an unusually large rise as well. Moreover, the recent strength in orders for many types of equipment pointed to further advances in capital spending in coming months. Expenditures for nonresidential structures, which had turned up last autumn, rose rapidly in the first quarter; unusually favorable weather over the two quarters likely was a contributing factor. The upturn in nonresidential building activity was spread broadly across the major types of structures.

The pace of accumulation of manufacturing and trade inventories slowed somewhat in the first quarter following a sizable buildup in late 1999, and the aggregate inventory-sales ratio edged down from an already very low level. Stockbuilding by manufacturers and merchant wholesalers picked up slightly in the first quarter, but stocks remained at low levels in relation to sales. By contrast, inventory investment slowed among retailers. Part of this slowdown might have involved a liquidation of precautionary stocks built up in anticipation of the century date change. The inventory-sales ratio in this sector was at a historically lean level.

The U.S. trade deficit in goods and services reached another new high in February as the value of imports rose sharply further and the value of exports changed little. For the January-February period, the moderate rise in exports and the sharp increase in imports from fourth-quarter levels were spread across most major trade categories. The available information suggested that economic expansion remained robust in most foreign industrial economies. The recent decline in the exchange value of the euro was spurring economic activity in the euro area, and Canada was benefiting from spillovers from the U.S. economy. For the Japanese economy, which had been the notable exception among the foreign industrial economies, there were indications of some strengthening of aggregate demand during the first five months of the year. Economic activity in the developing countries also continued to pick up. Key South American countries were recovering from recent recessions, while several Asian emerging-market countries were settling into growth at more sustainable rates.

Recent information suggested that price inflation might be picking up slightly and only partly as a direct result of increases in energy prices. Although consumer prices were unchanged in April, they recorded sizable step-ups in February and March; moreover, while the rise in core consumer prices over the twelve months ended in April was the same as the change in the year-earlier twelve-month period, core consumer price inflation was up slightly in the March-April period compared with other recent months. At the producer level, prices of finished goods other than food and energy edged higher in March and April, but the increase over the twelve months ended in February was a little smaller than the rise over the preceding twelve months. With regard to labor costs, the employment cost index for hourly compensation of private industry workers registered a larger advance in the first quarter than in previous quarters, and the rate of increase in compensation over the year ended in March was substantially larger than the rise over the year-earlier period. Faster growth in benefits accounted for more than half of the acceleration. Average hourly earnings of production or nonsupervisory workers grew at a slightly faster rate in April than in March, and the increase for the twelve months ended in April was larger than for the previous twelve-month period.