In the Committee's discussion of policy for the intermeeting period ahead, all the members endorsed a proposal to tighten reserve conditions sufficiently to raise the federal funds rate by ½ percentage point to a level of 6-1/2 percent. A more forceful policy move than the 25 basis point increases that had been implemented since mid-1999 was desirable in light of the extraordinary and persisting strength of overall demand, exceeding even the increasingly rapid growth of potential supply, and the attendant indications of growing pressures in already tight markets for labor and other resources. The strength in demand might itself be, at least in part, the result of the ongoing acceleration of productivity, with the latter feeding back on demand through higher equity prices and profitable investment opportunities. Financial markets seemed to have recognized the need for real interest rates to rise further under these circumstances, and while market assessments were not always correct, the evidence suggested that a more substantial tightening at this meeting was needed to limit inflation pressures. The members saw little risk in a relatively aggressive policy move, given the strong momentum of the expansion and widespread market expectations of such a move. The greater risk to the economic expansion at this point was for policy to be too sluggish in adjusting, thereby allowing inflationary disturbances and dislocations to build. A 50 basis point adjustment was more likely to help forestall a rise in inflationary expectations that, at least in the opinion of some members, already showed signs of worsening. A widespread view that the Federal Reserve would take whatever steps were needed to hold down inflation over time probably had contributed to the persistence of subdued long-run inflation expectations during an extended period when rapidly rising demand was pressing on limited supply resources. Today's policy move would undergird such relatively benign expectations and help assure the success of the Committee's policy.

The members agreed that the balance of risks sentence that would be included in the press statement to be released shortly after this meeting should indicate, as it had for other recent meetings, that even after today's tightening action the members believed the risks would remain tilted toward rising inflation. This view of the risks was based primarily on the persisting momentum of aggregate demand growth and the unusually high level of labor resource utilization. At the same time, a number of the members commented that they did not want to prejudge the potential extent or pace of future policy tightening and that the Committee should continue to assess the need for further policy moves in the light of evolving economic conditions to be reviewed on a meeting-by-meeting basis.