In the Committee's discussion of current and prospective economic developments, members commented that the decidedly positive information received over the intermeeting period provided strong evidence that an economic recovery was now under way, though its prospective strength remained subject to substantial uncertainty. In this regard it was noted that the economy was undergoing significant structural changes and those changes were adding to the usual difficulty of projecting the trajectory of economic activity after a turning point. Unexpected strength in household expenditures, much reduced weakness in business capital spending, and substantial slowing in inventory liquidation had produced an earlier upturn in economic activity than many had anticipated. A further strengthening of inventory investment would probably generate appreciable further growth in business activity over the quarters just ahead. Once the ongoing inventory correction was completed, however, it was not clear to what extent final demand in key sectors of the economy, notably business capital investment, would provide support for further economic growth. While the members agreed that the stimulative fiscal and monetary policies currently in place would undergird further economic expansion, most continued to anticipate a relatively subdued rate of expansion that would only gradually erode current margins of underutilized productive resources. The members viewed the outlook for core price inflation as still quite benign, largely reflecting the ample availability of labor and other producer resources to accommodate rising economic activity and the favorable prospects for further robust growth in productivity.

Anecdotal commentary from around the country was somewhat less positive on the whole than the recent macroeconomic data for the nation. Business conditions were reported to be improving in most areas and industries, but the pickup was uneven, with continued weakness still characterizing numerous industries. Many business contacts, although somewhat less pessimistic about the economic outlook, still did not appear to be anticipating a strong upturn this year. Gradual recovery was reported in the depressed tourism and travel industries. The manufacturing sector, where much of the economy's weakness had been concentrated, was displaying increased signs of stabilizing, with activity actually picking up in a number of industries and some firms anticipating increases in their payrolls over the next several months after experiencing large declines. However, employers in manufacturing and other sectors of the economy generally remained cautious in their hiring policies and in their plans for capital spending.

In their discussion of developments in key expenditure sectors of the economy, members commented that inventory investment was likely to remain a pivotal factor in the nearer-term performance of the economy. Firms had moved rapidly to correct earlier inventory imbalances. Data indicating a very large drawdown of inventories in the fourth quarter and further, albeit much diminished, liquidation in January along with anecdotal commentary suggested that inventories were now close to desired levels in many industries, notably in the retail sector, and the swing toward smaller drawdowns was giving a boost to industrial production. Looking ahead, inventory investment likely would turn toward accumulation as business firms facing brisk demand and depleted stocks stepped up their new orders, providing a source of significant strength in fostering economic recovery over the near term.

A major uncertainty in the economic outlook was the extent to which growth in final demand by households and business firms would provide ongoing support for the expansion as the impetus from inventory investment dissipated. The prospects for consumer spending remained favorable against the backdrop of a solid uptrend in disposable incomes associated to an important extent with an improving employment picture, robust underlying growth in labor productivity, and the further phase-in of personal income tax cuts enacted in 2001. Consumer confidence had improved considerably in recent months and consumer expenditures had displayed surprising strength. Members nonetheless cited some negatives in the outlook for consumer spending including the possibilities that a negative stock market wealth effect stemming from large earlier declines and the somewhat elevated rate of unemployment would weigh on consumer confidence. Importantly, because consumer spending for automobiles and other consumer durables had been well maintained through the extended period of economic weakness, further gains in such expenditures were likely to be limited over coming quarters in contrast to the typical surge in past economic recoveries. Moreover, energy price increases, especially if they were to become more pronounced, would tend to hold back household spending. On balance, members saw moderate further growth in consumer spending as a reasonable prospect for coming quarters.

After a lull during the fall of 2001, housing activity had displayed renewed vigor in recent months, in part as a consequence of widely favorable weather conditions. Indeed, single-family construction was described as a particularly bright sector in a number of local economies. Looking ahead, the favorable factors affecting consumer spending more generally along with relatively low mortgage interest rates were expected to sustain a high level of housing expenditures this year. In keeping with the outlook for consumer durables, however, a long period of active housing construction suggested that significant additional strength in housing was unlikely in coming quarters.

The members generally viewed business fixed investment spending as the key to the strength of economic activity once the thrust from inventory restocking had run its course. The outlook for business capital expenditures would be governed to an important extent by business expectations regarding sales and profits. After the steep declines in business investment over the past year, anecdotal reports from around the country provided scattered indications of an upturn but no evidence at this point of any broad-based improvement. According to such reports and despite the strength of recent economic statistics, which had boosted the economic forecasts of many observers, business confidence remained at a low level, evidently reflecting a weak outlook for profits in the business community in the context of strong competitive pressures. Negative factors bearing on the outlook for investment in capital equipment included the persistence of large margins of excess capacity in many industries. The outlook for commercial and other nonresidential construction seemed even less promising, at least for the next several quarters, given high vacancy rates in commercial structures in many parts of the nation. Members nonetheless cited some positives in this outlook that included the favorable effects on incentives to purchase capital equipment stemming from the outlook for relatively rapid growth in productivity and the recent passage of legislation providing a temporary tax incentive for investments in equipment and software. On balance, a substantial pickup in overall capital spending seemed likely to be delayed in the absence of surprising strength in final demand, but a wide range of possible outcomes could not be ruled out for this key sector of the economy.

Several members referred to the currently high degree of fiscal policy stimulus, which had been augmented by recent legislation. Much of the added stimulus from the investment incentive component of that legislation was not likely to be felt for some period and might occur at a time when the economy would already be expanding at a solid pace. Federal spending was increasing rapidly and its growth could taper off more slowly than current budget estimates implied. An at least partially offsetting factor was the prospect that state and local government expenditures would increase at a reduced pace this year amid widespread budget pressures that had emerged as tax receipts weakened along with the economy. However, some reports indicated that spending on local infrastructure projects was continuing at a solid pace in some parts of the nation.

Members saw a number of downside risks from potential developments abroad. In particular, concern was expressed about heightened tensions in the Middle East and their possible impact on oil markets and the cost of energy. For a variety of reasons, oil prices already had risen appreciably since the start of the year. With regard to the outlook for foreign trade, members reported some indications of an improving volume of trade with some Asian nations. However, the nation's net export position could deteriorate further when much of the impetus to world economic growth was coming from the U.S. economy.

The members expected price pressures to remain relatively contained over the next several quarters in the context of what they anticipated would be only a gradual reduction of the excess capacity in labor and product markets as the recovery progressed. Moreover, the prospects of relatively robust growth in productivity in a highly flexible and competitive economy likely would moderate the extent of any potential buildup in inflationary pressures in the future. Members nonetheless mentioned some potential negatives in this outlook, notably the possibility of rising wage pressures as labor markets became more fully employed and upward price pressures stemming from increasing steel, energy, and insurance costs.

In the Committee's discussion of policy for the intermeeting period ahead, all the members supported a proposal to maintain an unchanged policy stance, with the target for the federal funds rate staying at 1-3/4 percent. While the economy currently appeared to be expanding at a fairly vigorous pace, the advance importantly reflected a temporary swing in inventory investment and considerable uncertainty surrounded the outlook for final demand over the quarters ahead. Against this background, the members judged the currently accommodative stance of monetary policy to be appropriate for now, especially in light of the relatively high unemployment rate, low capacity utilization rates in numerous industries, and quiescent inflation pressures.

Looking ahead, however, the stance of policy would need to be adjusted at some point to provide less stimulus as the members gained more confidence that the recovery was becoming better entrenched and the risks had shifted toward rising inflationary pressures. The need to adjust monetary policy during the early stages of a recovery presented a special challenge with regard to its timing and extent in that raising rates prematurely or too precipitately could weaken or abort the recovery, while waiting too long could risk a pickup in inflationary pressures later. Members concluded that the Committee would be in a better position to assess the appropriate timing of a policy change at the May meeting when it would have more information to gauge the economy's performance in two critical areas, namely developments relating to inventory investment and the implications of trends in sales and profits for capital investment. A reference to the Committee's currently accommodative policy stance in the press announcement to be issued shortly after this meeting would alert the public to the need to firm policy at some point in the future.

All the members indicated that they could accept a proposal to move the balance of risks statement from potential weakness to a neutral position. It was clear that significant downside risks remained in the economy even apart from any major unanticipated shocks to business and consumer confidence, but in light of the strength of the recent economic information nearly all the members agreed that a balanced risks statement now best represented their consensus regarding the economic outlook over the foreseeable future. Members noted that a neutral statement did not preclude a tightening policy move should the latter seem warranted by rapidly evolving economic conditions.