At its meeting on January 29-30, 2002, the Committee adopted a directive that called for implementing conditions in reserve markets consistent with keeping the intended level of the federal funds rate at 1-3/4 percent. The members noted that policy had been eased substantially over the past year and that the inflation-adjusted federal funds rate was at an unusually low level. As a result, policy was positioned to support an economic recovery as forces restraining aggregate demand abated. Nonetheless, the members agreed that there were factors that might keep the pace of expansion below the rate of growth of potential for a while, and thus the balance of risks continued to be tilted toward economic weakness in the foreseeable future.

The federal funds rate remained close to the Committee's target level of 1-3/4 percent during the intermeeting period. However, short-term market rates increased slightly over the intermeeting interval, and yields on longer-term Treasury instruments and high-grade corporate bonds rose by more. The rise in rates was sparked initially by market participants' reading of the Committee's press statement as suggesting greater-than-expected optimism about the economy going forward. That assessment was subsequently strengthened by data on spending and output released during the intermeeting interval that came in well above market expectations. Speculative-grade bond yields fell somewhat in reaction to the improved economic outlook and the perceived reduction of credit risk. Most major indexes of equity prices moved up sharply on the bullish economic reports.

In foreign exchange markets, the trade-weighted value of the dollar in terms of the major foreign currencies eased slightly on balance over the intermeeting period. The dollar fell more against the yen than the euro despite negative economic news from Japan and the disappointing reaction to the Japanese government's announcement of an "anti-deflation" package. The exchange value of the dollar changed little in terms of an index of the currencies of other important trading partners, in part because of the further depreciation of the Argentine peso.

Expansion of M2 rebounded somewhat in February from January's lackluster rate, but growth in the early part of the year was down sharply from the robust pace of late last year. The slowdown apparently was related to the ebbing effect of earlier declines in opportunity costs of holding M2 assets and to the shift of large amounts of money from retail money market funds into bond and equity mutual funds as concerns about volatility in financial markets eased. Reduced demand for mortgage refinancing also seemed to have contributed to the deceleration of M2. The debt of the domestic nonfinancial sectors was estimated to have increased at a relatively slow rate in January, reflecting weak demand for business debt financing and little net borrowing by the federal government.