The information reviewed at this meeting indicated that economic activity had turned up in the final quarter of last year and strengthened further since then. Consumer spending on goods other than motor vehicles was brisk in the early part of this year, business purchases of equipment and software appeared to be beginning to recover from their marked decline of last year, and housing starts turned back up. Amid signs that most firms had worked down their inventories to more comfortable levels, industrial production increased slightly after having declined for nearly a year and a half, and payroll employment appeared to be bottoming out. Inflation remained low despite some firming of energy prices.

Private nonfarm payroll employment moved up in February, retracing part of January's drop. Layoffs in manufacturing slowed further, the construction industry added back some workers in February, and the retail trade and services sectors continued to hire in both months. The unemployment rate edged down again in February to 5.5 percent, and initial claims for unemployment insurance continued to drop.

Industrial production increased somewhat in January and February after a steep decline from its June 2000 peak. Manufacturing output rose in both months, and the factory operating rate moved up slightly from its low level at year-end. The pickup in manufacturing this year was spread across several major industries, including chemicals, computers and semiconductors, paper, and tobacco. In addition, output of communications equipment steadied after having plunged for more than a year. In contrast, production of motor vehicles and parts changed little over January and February after a surge late in 2001.

Consumer spending remained strong in the early part of the year, despite a sizable drop in purchases of light vehicles in January that was followed by a rebound in February as manufacturers switched from attractive financing terms to cash rebates. Outlays for retail items other than motor vehicles expanded further in February after the large increases recorded in the two prior months. Outlays for services continued to rise moderately in January (latest data). Consumer purchases were supported by a sizable gain in disposable personal income in January, and readings on consumer sentiment were close to their historical averages.

Residential construction had been very strong in the past several months, with new starts reaching their highest level in almost two years. The strength in homebuilding was associated in part with unusually warm and dry weather, but very low mortgage rates also continued to play an important role.

Business spending on durable equipment and software appeared to be turning upward after a marked moderation in the fourth quarter of the steep decline recorded in the two previous quarters. Shipments and orders of nondefense capital goods were unexpectedly strong in January. There were signs of recovery in the high-tech sector, with shipments of computers and peripherals increasing for a fifth straight month, but shipments of communications equipment turned down in January after a December bounce. Shipments in most other sectors recorded increases and were particularly robust for machinery, engines, and turbines. Business demand for motor vehicles remained mixed, with fleet sales of light vehicles higher and purchases of medium and heavy trucks somewhat weaker. Nonresidential construction remained in a slump, with spending on new office buildings and industrial structures down sharply in an environment of elevated vacancy rates.

The pace of liquidation of manufacturing and trade inventories, excluding motor vehicles, slowed in January after a very rapid rundown in the fourth quarter, and with sales higher the aggregate inventory-sales ratio declined to its lowest level since midyear 2000. Manufacturers' stocks were drawn down sharply further in January, and the sector's stock-to-shipments ratio fell appreciably. At the wholesale level, the rate of inventory runoff slowed somewhat, but the sector's inventory-sales ratio declined further. The level of inventories at the retail level increased somewhat despite a rise in sales, and the sector's aggregate inventory-sales ratio was at an historically low level.

The U.S. trade deficit in goods and services widened somewhat in January. The value of exports changed little but the value of imports rose appreciably, to about the November level. The available information indicated that economic activity in the foreign industrial countries showed little net change in the fourth quarter. The Canadian economy rebounded from a weak third quarter, but economic expansion in the United Kingdom nearly came to a halt in the fourth quarter, economic activity in the euro area slipped a little, and the Japanese economy recorded a steep drop. There were indications, however, of a gradually improving economic outlook in several of these economies in the first quarter as a consequence of previous monetary policy easing actions that their respective central banks had taken and from the effects of an improved economic performance in the United States. Among the major emerging-market countries, the exports of a number of Asian economies were benefiting from the nascent recovery in high-tech industries around the world. In Latin America, although Argentina remained in a steep downward trend, the Mexican and Brazilian economies seemed to be recovering from weakness in the fourth quarter.

Consumer price inflation picked up a bit in January as energy prices posted their first increase since September. However, on a year-over-year basis, core price inflation as measured by the consumer price index leveled out at a moderate rate, while core PCE (personal consumption expenditure) price inflation declined appreciably. Labor costs also appeared to have decelerated recently. The employment cost index for hourly compensation in private industry rose moderately in the fourth quarter of last year and for the year as a whole. Both the salary and benefits components recorded slightly smaller increases last year. Average hourly earnings of production and nonsupervisory workers advanced only slightly in January and February of this year, and the average wage increase during the twelve months through February was slightly lower than that for the twelve-month period ending in February 2001.