The information reviewed for the December 12-13 meeting indicated that labor market conditions continued to strengthen through November and suggested that real gross domestic product (GDP) was rising at a solid pace in the second half of 2017. Total consumer price inflation, as measured by the 12-month percentage change in the price index for personal consumption expenditures (PCE), remained below 2 percent in October and was lower than early in the year. Survey-based measures of longer-run inflation expectations were little changed on balance.

Total nonfarm payroll employment increased strongly in October and November, likely reflecting in part a rebound from the negative effects of the hurricanes in September. The national unemployment rate declined to 4.1 percent in October and remained at that level in November. The unemployment rates for Hispanics, for Asians, and for whites were lower in November than two months earlier, while the rate for African Americans was a little higher; the unemployment rates for each of these groups were close to the levels seen just before the most recent recession. The national labor force participation rate was lower in November than it had been in September but remained in the range seen over the past several years. The share of workers employed part time for economic reasons declined in October and was about unchanged in November. The rates of private-sector job openings and quits were little changed at relatively high levels in September and October, and the four-week moving average of initial claims for unemployment insurance benefits continued to be at a low level in early December. Recent readings showed that wage gains remained modest. Compensation per hour in the nonfarm business sector increased 1 percent over the four quarters ending in the third quarter, and average hourly earnings for all employees rose 2-1/2 percent over the 12 months ending in November.

Total industrial production increased briskly in October, boosted in part by a continued return to more-normal operations that reflected the waning of the negative effects of recent hurricanes in the previous two months. Automakers' schedules indicated that light motor vehicle assemblies would likely move up in the coming months. Broader indicators of manufacturing production, such as the new orders indexes from national and regional manufacturing surveys, pointed to further increases in factory output in the near term.

Real PCE increased modestly in October after expanding strongly in September. The pace of light motor vehicle sales slowed in November from the elevated rate in the preceding two months but continued to be above levels seen earlier in the year. Recent readings on key factors that influence consumer spending--including gains in employment, real disposable personal income, and households' net worth--continued to be supportive of moderate real PCE growth in the fourth quarter. Consumer sentiment in early December, as measured by the University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers, remained at a high level.

Recent information on housing activity suggested that real residential investment spending was edging up in the fourth quarter after declining in the previous two quarters. Both starts and building permit issuance for new single-family homes increased somewhat in October, and starts for multifamily units moved up considerably. Sales of both new and existing homes rose moderately in October.

Real private expenditures for business equipment and intellectual property appeared to be rising further in the fourth quarter. Nominal shipments of nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft increased in October, and new orders of these goods continued to exceed shipments, which pointed to further gains in shipments in the near term. In addition, readings on business sentiment remained upbeat. Firms' nominal spending for nonresidential structures excluding drilling and mining rose in October, and the number of oil and gas rigs in operation--an indicator of spending for structures in the drilling and mining sector--started to edge up in late November after declining earlier in the fourth quarter.

Total real government purchases looked to be rising in the fourth quarter. Nominal defense expenditures in October and November pointed to a flattening in real federal government purchases. However, real purchases by state and local governments appeared to be moving up, as these governments expanded their payrolls modestly over the two months ending in November and their nominal construction spending increased in October.

The nominal U.S. international trade deficit widened slightly in September and sharply in October. Exports picked up in September, led by exports of industrial supplies, but were flat in October. Imports grew significantly in both months, reflecting strength in most categories, al­though imports of automobiles declined. The available trade data suggested that the change in real net exports would make a neutral contribution to real U.S. GDP growth in the fourth quarter.

Total U.S. consumer prices, as measured by the PCE price index, increased slightly more than 1-1/2 percent over the 12 months ending in October. Core PCE price inflation, which excludes changes in consumer food and energy prices, was nearly 1-1/2 percent over that same period. The consumer price index (CPI) rose 2-1/4 percent over the 12 months ending in November, while core CPI inflation was 1-3/4 percent. Recent readings on survey-based measures of longer-run inflation expectations--including those from the Michigan survey, the Survey of Professional Forecasters, and the Desk's Survey of Primary Dealers and Survey of Market Participants--were little changed on balance.

Economic activity expanded at a solid pace in most foreign economies in the third quarter. In several advanced foreign economies (AFEs), economic growth slowed but remained firm. Economic activity in the emerging market economies (EMEs) continued to grow briskly for the most part, especially in Asia. However, the Mexican economy contracted in the third quarter, as hurricanes and earthquakes disrupted economic activity. Despite a boost from recent increases in oil prices, inflation remained relatively subdued in most AFEs and moderate in EMEs.