In the Committee's discussion of current and prospective economic conditions, members commented that widespread anecdotal reports supported statistical indications that the economy was contracting, and they saw no significant evidence that overall business conditions were in the process of stabilizing prior to recovering. While the members continued to see a fairly brief and limited decrease in economic activity as the most likely outcome, they also agreed that the risks to such a forecast were strongly tilted to the downside. Business investment expenditures clearly seemed likely to continue to decline over coming months. On the other hand, consumer spending had held up reasonably well thus far, but further job losses could undermine consumer confidence and spending. Looking further ahead, the longer-term prospects for productivity and growth in the U.S. economy remained bright and an upturn during 2002 was a likely prospect. Such a recovery would be fostered by the lagged stimulus from both fiscal and monetary policies interacting with progress by business firms toward completing their adjustments to overhangs in capital resources and excess inventories. However, the strength and timing of the eventual recovery remained subject to question especially in light of the marked degree of uncertainty that surrounded the prospects for further fiscal policy legislation, developments in the war against terrorism, and weakness in foreign economies. In the context of diminished pressures on labor and other resources, the members expected underlying consumer price inflation to remain benign and possibly to drift lower over coming quarters, abetted by the indirect effects of generally weaker energy prices.

In their review of developments in key sectors of the economy, members noted that surveys and anecdotal commentary pointed to a considerable decline in consumer confidence, though in the view of some members the decline seemed less than might have been expected given prevailing circumstances. Retail sales, led by a surge in motor vehicles, had improved considerably following a downturn in the weeks after September 11. Even so, retail sales were still generally below their levels prior to the terrorist attacks, and overall spending on consumer services had decelerated considerably, notably reflecting continuing weakness in expenditures on airline travel and related travel activities. The extraordinary increase in sales of light motor vehicles in October clearly was propelled by exceptionally attractive financing incentives, but such inducements were temporary and many of the resulting sales undoubtedly borrowed from the future. Still, the jump in motor vehicle sales was a sign that underlying consumer confidence and willingness to spend had held up reasonably well in this period. Looking ahead, reports from retailer contacts were somewhat mixed; many anticipated relatively depressed holiday sales and where possible were making efforts to limit buildups of holiday merchandise, while other retailers were confident that sales would be reasonably well maintained, albeit generally somewhat below levels or growth rates experienced in previous holiday seasons. Beyond the months immediately ahead, members anticipated that, in addition to a drop in motor vehicle sales to more sustainable levels, consumer spending was likely to be held back by the persistence of widespread caution among households and by the decline in stock market wealth over the last year or so. Consumer confidence was vulnerable to renewed terrorism and to further weakness in labor markets.

Housing activity, though still at a relatively elevated level, had displayed signs of some slippage in recent months. There were anecdotal reports of excess inventories of unsold homes in some areas, and members again cited indications of particular softness in the high-price segment of the housing market. Weakness in employment and more generally the rise in uncertainty were having a depressing effect on homebuilding activity, which likely would persist over coming months. Nonetheless, low mortgage interest rates continued to provide important support to homebuilding, and in the absence of a much weaker economy than was currently anticipated or of a further sizable shock to consumer confidence, there appeared to be little basis in ongoing trends and housing finance conditions to expect substantial additional erosion in residential construction.

Business fixed investment currently seemed to be declining at an even faster rate than earlier in the year, and the sharp decrease in new orders of capital goods in September pointed to marked additional weakness over the months ahead. According to widespread anecdotal reports, business confidence appeared to have worsened considerably further since late summer in the context of a generally deteriorating outlook for sales and earnings. In these circumstances, business firms were likely to persist in their efforts to reduce what they viewed as excess capacity, notably in high-tech and travel-related industries. Some exceptions related to the expansion of healthcare and security-enhancing facilities. However, the longer-term attractiveness of efficiency-inducing capital investment would at some point promote a robust upturn in such expenditures. The timing remained uncertain, but a number of members saw a reasonable prospect that the decline in expenditures for capital equipment and software would abate early next year and that such spending probably would turn up during the second half of the year as businesses succeeded in better aligning actual and desired capital stocks. With regard to nonresidential construction, widespread increases in vacancy rates around the country suggested that the turnaround in overall activity might be more delayed despite some near-term stimulus from reconstruction activity in New York City. In general and given prevailing wait-and-see business attitudes, members believed that the risks over the forecast horizon remained in the direction of a shortfall in capital expenditures from what were already weak expectations.

A key uncertainty in the outlook for investment spending was the outcome of the ongoing Congressional debate relating to tax incentives for investment in equipment and software. Both the passage and the specific contents of such legislation remained in question. Moreover, several members stressed the difficulty of assessing the effectiveness of temporary fiscal policy measures directed at boosting investment expenditures. Though undoubtedly helpful in fostering greater capital spending while the tax incentives remained in place, members expressed reservations about the extent of the favorable effects in the nearer term when marked disincentives existed for many firms to make capital expenditures in the context of excess capacity, weak markets, and poor profit opportunities. More generally, forecasts of a reasonably vigorous rebound in the economy over 2002 depended in part on expectations of added fiscal stimulus, but prospects appeared to have diminished for prompt passage of fiscal policy initiatives that could significantly boost economic activity in the next several quarters.

Business firms were continuing to cut back production in efforts to adjust output to faltering demand and to pare excess inventories. Even so, with demand generally tending to be weaker than expected, inventory-sales ratios had remained on the high side for many firms and strong efforts to reduce inventories were persisting, including efforts by many retailers in light of their expectations that holiday sales would prove disappointing. The pace of inventory liquidation was thought likely to moderate in coming quarters and subsequently turn to accumulation as inventories came into better balance with sales, with increasingly positive implications for overall production and economic activity.

Weakness in foreign economies was continuing to foster declines in U.S. exports in what appeared to be an increasingly synchronous and mutually reinforcing pattern of economic activity among the world's nations. With recent indications that on the whole foreign economic activity was deteriorating somewhat further and by more than previously anticipated, members viewed the risks for activity in foreign nations and their related demand for U.S. goods and services as tilted decidedly to the downside.

The considerable slack in labor markets, evidenced by both statistical and widespread anecdotal reports, was expected to exert appreciable downward pressure on wage increases over the forecast period. Concurrently, however, the favorable impact of wage disinflation on business costs would be offset in part by increasing costs of healthcare insurance, slower gains in structural productivity associated with reduced business capital investment, and by the necessity to divert some resources to enhance security. The passthrough effects of the substantial decline in energy prices over the past year were a favorable factor in the outlook for core inflation. On balance, core consumer price inflation was projected to remain subdued and quite possibly edge lower.

In the Committee's discussion of policy for the intermeeting period ahead, all the members indicated that they could support a proposal calling for further easing in reserve conditions consistent with a 50 basis point reduction in the federal funds rate to a level of 2 percent.

The heightened degree of uncertainty and risk aversion following the terrorist attacks seemed to be having a pronounced effect on business and household spending. The continued contraction in the economy and marking down of most forecasts of inflation and resource utilization going forward strongly suggested the desirability of further easing in the stance of policy. Although policy had been eased substantially in 2001, the forces restraining demand had been considerable, and a variety of factors had limited the passthrough of lower short-term interest rates into long-term rates, equity prices, bank lending rates, and the foreign exchange value of the dollar. In circumstances in which inflation was already reasonably low and pressures on resources and prices were likely to abate further in coming months, the risks were quite small that additional monetary stimulus aimed at bolstering the economy would foster a pickup in inflation.

A number of members noted that the choice between 25 and 50 basis points of easing was a close call. Three favored a smaller move on balance, although they could accept the larger decrease in the current environment of substantial uncertainty about the course of the economy and the appropriate stance of policy. These members noted that policy was already accommodative. Indeed, policy had been eased substantially further in September and October, and the effects of those actions and any added easing at this meeting would be felt mostly during the year ahead when fiscal stimulus and the inherent resilience of the economy should already be boosting growth substantially. Some also were concerned that the more sizable action in combination with an announcement of the Committee's continuing concern about further economic weakness would lead markets to build in inappropriate expectations of even more monetary stimulus.

Most members, however, favored a 50 basis point reduction in the Committee's target federal funds rate. These members stressed the absence of evidence that the economy was beginning to stabilize and some commented that indications of economic weakness had in fact intensified. Moreover, it was likely in the view of these members that core inflation, which was already modest, would decelerate further. In these circumstances insufficient monetary policy stimulus would risk a more extended contraction of the economy and possibly even downward pressures on prices that could be difficult to counter with the current federal funds rate already quite low. Should the economy display unanticipated strength in the near term, the emerging need for a tightening action would be a highly welcome development that could be readily accommodated in a timely manner to forestall any potential pickup in inflation.

All the members indicated that with the risks to the economy clearly tilted toward further weakness, they could vote in favor of retaining a statement to that effect in the press statement to be released shortly after today's meeting. Several stressed that such a statement did not constitute a commitment by the Committee to ease policy further at the next meeting. While the members agreed that significant further weakness in the economy might indeed warrant additional easing, a decision in that regard would depend entirely on the nature of future economic and financial developments.