The information reviewed at this meeting indicated that economic activity, already weak in late summer, had softened further after the terrorist attacks. Overall consumer spending faltered, though purchases of motor vehicles reached a near-record level, and the downward trajectory in business capital expenditures steepened. With sales contracting and inventory imbalances still substantial, the manufacturing sector continued its sharp slide, and aggregate employment plunged. Energy prices were moderating somewhat in response to lower worldwide demand, and core price inflation remained subdued.

Conditions in the labor market deteriorated sharply further in October, with private nonfarm payroll employment suffering its worst monthly decline since 1975. The largest drop was in manufacturing, but nearly every major sector experienced sizable job losses. Among other job market indicators, the average workweek edged down, initial claims for unemployment insurance remained very high, and the unemployment rate jumped to 5.4 percent, an increase of one-half percentage point.

Industrial production recorded another large decrease in September (latest data), and the weakness was spread across most market groups and industries. Motor vehicle assemblies registered a further sharp contraction, and output of high-technology goods plunged still lower. The additional decline in production in September brought the rate of utilization of overall manufacturing capacity to its lowest reading since May 1983.

Personal consumption expenditures fell sharply in September; purchases of goods plummeted and consumption of services, particularly transportation and recreation services, declined as well. In October, sales of light vehicles surged to near-record levels in response to special financing packages offered by many automakers, but available information suggested that non-auto spending was weak.

Residential building activity edged down during the August-September period, and signs of some further softness had emerged in recent weeks. Nonetheless, in an environment of very low mortgage rates, residential construction had been sustained at a comparatively high level despite a weakening labor market and sluggish growth in personal income. Sales of new and existing homes slipped in September but were not far below the near-record levels of last March.

Business capital spending on equipment and software fell sharply further in the third quarter. Moreover, the available information on orders and shipments of nondefense capital goods suggested another steep drop in such spending in the latter part of this year in the current environment of eroding corporate earnings and cash flows and a very uncertain outlook for future sales and earnings. The weakness in demand for durable equipment was spread across almost all categories of equipment but was particularly prominent for high-tech goods, aircraft, automobiles, and trucks. Nonresidential construction activity also declined in the spring and summer.

Total business inventories on a book-value basis decreased in July and August (latest data for wholesalers and retailers) at a rate close to that of the second quarter. At the manufacturing level, stocks continued to run off at a brisk pace through September; however, shipments weakened by more in the third quarter, and the aggregate inventory-shipments ratio for the sector reached its highest level in more than five years. Wholesalers also experienced a sizable decline in inventories over July and August that resulted in a slight reduction in their aggregate inventory-sales ratio, but that ratio was still in the upper end of its range for the past two years. Retail inventories climbed somewhat in July and August, but the sector's inventory-sales ratio was little changed in August and was in the lower end of its range for the past year.

The U.S. trade deficit in goods and services contracted slightly in August after having changed little in July, and the deficit for July and August combined was considerably smaller than that for the second quarter. The value of exports fell in the July-August period, with most of the drop occurring in capital goods, consumer goods, and industrial supplies. The value of imports was down appreciably more than that of exports, with decreases occurring in almost all major trade categories; automotive products, food, and aircraft were the only exceptions. Recent information indicated that foreign economic activity had changed little in the third quarter, and some forward indicators and anecdotal information pointed to reduced activity later in the year. Economic activity in the euro area and the United Kingdom appeared to be reviving in the summer months, but renewed softening stemming from a downturn in business and consumer confidence seemed to have emerged in September and October. Japan remained the weakest of the major foreign industrial economies; the sharp contraction in economic activity that began early in the year continued in the third quarter, and the unemployment rate reached a record high in September. Most major emerging-market economies, with the notable exception of China, also were continuing to experience an economic slowdown that was related at least in part to weakness in the industrialized world.

Core consumer price inflation remained at a relatively subdued pace in August and September; and with energy prices having moderated over the past year, total consumer price inflation had moved down, on a year-over-year basis, to the slower pace of its core component. Both the core consumer price (CPI) index and the personal consumption expenditure (PCE) chain-type index exhibited this general pattern. Core producer price inflation for finished goods also held at a low rate in the August-September period and on a year-over-year basis. With regard to labor costs, total hourly compensation of private industry workers decelerated further in the third quarter, despite a surge in benefit costs, and also slowed noticeably on a year-over-year basis. Average hourly earnings of production or nonsupervisory workers continued to rise in August and September at the relatively moderate rate that had prevailed in earlier months.