At its meeting on October 2, 2001, the Committee adopted a directive that called for maintaining conditions in reserve markets consistent with a decrease of 50 basis points in the intended level of the federal funds rate, to about 2-1/2 percent. The members recognized that monetary policy already had been eased substantially this year, but they believed that the increased evidence of a faltering economy and the decidedly downside risks to the outlook called for a further move. The additional rate reduction would help limit the extent of the downturn and later would contribute to an upturn. Moreover, the recent declines in equity prices and widening of risk spreads tended to offset some of the stimulative effects of earlier easings, and the relatively low level of inflation and inflationary expectations provided room to counter downside forces without incurring significant risks of higher inflation. The members also believed that the balance of risks remained weighted toward conditions that could generate economic weakness in the foreseeable future.

Federal funds traded at rates near the Committee's target level over the intermeeting period. Most interest rates declined significantly during the period even though the reduction in the target level for the federal funds rate had been anticipated by market participants. They apparently saw the Committee's announcement and the subsequent release of weaker-than-expected data as portending further policy easing. With yields on private debt securities down sharply and investors perhaps becoming more confident about long-tem business prospects, major indexes of equity prices moved higher over the intermeeting period.

In foreign exchange markets, the trade-weighted value of the dollar in terms of the major foreign currencies had increased slightly on balance since the October meeting. Incoming data for the foreign industrial economies were weaker than expected, and market interest rates abroad declined in response to reductions in policy interest rates in Canada and the United Kingdom and to market expectations that the European Central Bank would lower its policy rates by year-end. The dollar moved down slightly on balance in terms of an index of the currencies of other important trading partners. The Brazilian real was adversely affected by spillovers from Argentina's financial difficulties, while the Mexican peso rebounded from its decline against the dollar in the wake of the September terrorist attacks.

M2 changed little in October after a surge in September that was related in important measure to a temporary bulge in transaction deposits stemming largely from delayed settlements of security trades in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks. On balance, M2 grew rapidly over the September-October period, reflecting the sharp drop in market interest rates and perhaps the deposit of federal tax rebates. M3 also increased rapidly over September and October, largely in conjunction with the expansion of M2. The debt of domestic nonfinancial sectors grew at a moderate pace on balance through August.