U.S. Treasury yields and the market-implied federal funds rate path moved substantially higher over the intermeeting period as Federal Reserve communications and domestic economic data releases were perceived as suggesting that a more aggressive tightening of monetary policy was likely over coming months. Sovereign yields in advanced foreign economies (AFEs) also increased notably. Broad domestic equity price indexes declined on net, and the one-month option-implied volatility on the S&P 500 index—the VIX—remained elevated. Short-term funding markets were stable, while participation in the ON RRP facility increased further. Amid the increase in Treasury yields, borrowing costs increased in many sectors and were at or somewhat above pre-pandemic levels.

Since the March FOMC meeting, 2-, 5-, and 10-year Treasury yields increased significantly on net. The increases in nominal Treasury yields were primarily accounted for by rising real yields, while inflation compensation implied by Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities was little changed. Alongside moves in shorter-term Treasury yields, the expected federal funds rate path—implied by a straight read of overnight index swap quotes—rose notably since the March FOMC meeting.

Broad equity indexes decreased over the intermeeting period. Early in the period, equity prices increased, supported by the robust pace of economic activity and reduced market concerns about the implications for the global economy of Russia's invasion of Ukraine. The initial sharp gains in stock prices were followed by larger declines later in the period, as longer-term interest rates rose substantially and as some disappointing earnings reports toward the end of the intermeeting period weighed on equity prices. The VIX declined substantially early in the period but ended the period little changed on net, remaining at elevated levels. Similarly, spreads on investment- and speculative-grade corporate bonds narrowed moderately earlier in the intermeeting period and then widened, ending the period only slightly narrower, on net, and below the median of their historical distribution. Spreads on municipal bonds were up modestly and stood at about the 90th percentile of their historical distribution.

Conditions in short-term funding markets remained stable over the intermeeting period, with the March increase in the Federal Reserve's administered rates passing through to overnight money market rates. Secured overnight rates softened later in the period, with downward pressure on rates attributed to continuing declines in net Treasury bill issuance, increased activity in certain segments of the repo market that tend to trade at lower rates, and money market funds continuing to shorten portfolio maturities amid uncertainty about the pace of anticipated policy rate increases. Consistent with the downward pressure on repo rates, daily take-up in the ON RRP facility remained elevated.

Spreads on most types of longer-tenor commercial paper and negotiable certificates of deposit narrowed, reportedly reflecting reduced market concerns about the effects of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, although some of the spreads remained slightly wider than those seen earlier this year.

Over the intermeeting period, sovereign yields in AFEs increased notably because of concerns about further inflationary pressures, some central bank communications that were perceived as less accommodative than expected, and spillovers from rises in U.S. Treasury yields. Prospects of tighter monetary policy and COVID-related lockdowns in China weighed on prices of risky assets, but investor concerns surrounding the economic effects of the war in Ukraine seemed to abate partially. On balance, major foreign equity indexes registered mixed and relatively modest changes. The U.S. dollar generally strengthened, with a more pronounced dollar appreciation against AFE currencies, as U.S. Treasury yields generally rose more than their AFE counterparts. Among EM currencies, the dollar appreciated significantly against the Chinese renminbi.

Over the intermeeting period, along with the increase in Treasury yields, borrowing costs increased in many sectors and were at or somewhat above pre-pandemic levels. Credit remained widely available, and borrower credit quality continued to be strong overall.

Borrowing costs for residential mortgage loans increased substantially, with the 30-year mortgage offer rates reaching levels not seen since 2010. This increase largely reflected the rise in the 10-year Treasury yield. Corporate bond yields also increased, although the effect of the increase in Treasury yields was partly offset by narrower spreads. Municipal bond yields also increased notably.

Bank loan rates for commercial borrowers increased and rates on large syndicated loans were roughly in line with pre-pandemic levels. In consumer credit markets, rates on auto loans and new credit card offers continued to trend upward.

Credit, which remained widely available for most types of borrowers, was broadly in line with pre-pandemic levels. Gross nonfinancial corporate bond issuance rebounded sharply in March, mostly reflecting an increase in investment-grade issuance, while gross institutional leveraged loan issuance slowed amid elevated geopolitical uncertainty.

Commercial and industrial (C&I) loans and commercial real estate (CRE) loans on bank balance sheets also grew robustly in March. Respondents in the April Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices (SLOOS) reported a continued easing of lending terms and strengthening demand for C&I loans as well as easing standards for multifamily CRE loans.

For most small businesses, credit appeared to be available, although these businesses' demand for credit reportedly remained weak. In the April SLOOS, large banks reported unchanged standards on C&I loans to small firms, while small banks tightened standards modestly to such firms.

In consumer credit markets, credit card balances grew strongly in the first quarter amid easing standards and greater utilization, and auto credit outstanding continued to grow steadily through February despite vehicle production shortfalls and low vehicle inventories. Residential mortgage credit conditions remained accommodative through March, despite the increase in mortgage interest rates, particularly for stronger borrowers who met standard loan criteria.

The credit quality of firms, municipalities, and households remained strong overall. The volume of credit rating upgrades for corporate bonds outpaced downgrades moderately in March, continuing a nearly yearlong pattern. The credit quality of C&I loans on banks' books continued to be strong as delinquency and default rates both remained low. Delinquency rates on bank and nonbank loans to small businesses edged down in February, while in the CRE sector, borrower financial health continued to recover. Household credit quality remained strong, and delinquency rates across both prime and nonprime borrowers continued to be subdued by historical standards.

The staff provided an update on its assessment of the stability of the financial system. The staff judged that, amid a substantial upward shift in interest rates, Russia's invasion of Ukraine, and ongoing disruptions to supply chains, the financial system—outside of commodities markets—had been resilient. However, larger or prolonged disruptions in commodities markets could interfere with other markets and real activity more broadly. To date, however, such potential spillovers appeared to be limited.

The staff noted that increased uncertainty and ongoing volatility had reduced risk appetite in financial markets and eased price pressures, although valuations of many assets remained elevated. CRE valuations appeared somewhat elevated except for sectors that were affected most by the pandemic. Residential house prices had risen rapidly, although the staff continued to see key differences from the previous debt-fueled housing boom: The mortgage finance reforms enacted after 2008 limited the potential for significant deterioration in underwriting standards, most new mortgage debt had been added by borrowers with prime credit scores, and homeowners' equity positions were healthy.

The staff assessed that aggregate household and business leverage was moderate. Households' debt-to-GDP ratio remained relatively low, and there were few signs of increased stress among lower-income households. Business debt remained elevated relative to its pre-pandemic history, but interest coverage ratios were high.

The staff assessed that vulnerabilities arising from financial leverage remained moderate on balance. Despite market volatility, the banking sector continued to be well capitalized with strong liquidity. The staff noted that leverage at key nonbank financial institutions (NBFIs) was elevated and that bank lending to NBFIs continued to increase notably. Relatedly, NBFIs' reliance on bank credit lines to meet unexpected liquidity needs could generate moderate liquidity pressures at large banks during times of financial stress. With regard to funding risk, the staff highlighted structural vulnerabilities in some types of mutual funds as a continuing focus.