The manager turned first to a discussion of monetary policy expectations in the United States. Federal Reserve communications since the March FOMC meeting were perceived as signaling a more rapid removal of policy accommodation than had been expected, resulting in significant shifts in expectations regarding the path of the federal funds rate. For the current meeting, federal funds futures implied around 50 basis points of policy rate tightening, and Open Market Desk survey respondents assigned an average probability of 80 percent to that outcome. The median Desk survey respondents also projected 50-basis-point increases in the target range at the two following meetings and another 125 basis points of increases by the middle of next year, bringing the projected midpoint of the target range to a peak of 3.13 percent—substantially higher than in previous surveys. Market participants continued to note significant uncertainty regarding the economic outlook and the degree of policy tightening ahead. This uncertainty was reflected in the dispersion in survey respondents' average probability distribution for the target range at the end of 2023.

Regarding the outlook for runoff of the Federal Reserve's securities holdings, market participants widely expected the Committee to announce the commencement of balance sheet runoff at the current meeting. Median survey responses suggested that most market participants anticipated maximum redemption caps of $60 billion per month for Treasury securities and $35 billion per month for agency mortgage-backed securities (MBS), with the caps phased in over roughly three months. Survey responses continued to reflect substantial dispersion in views on the level of System Open Market Account (SOMA) holdings at which balance sheet runoff would end.

The manager turned next to a discussion of U.S. financial market developments. Financial conditions tightened notably over the period. Treasury yields increased across the curve, with the rise primarily reflecting higher real interest rates. Longer-term private borrowing rates also moved higher, with 30-year fixed-rate mortgage rates rising above 5 percent to the highest levels in over a decade. Equity indexes ended the period substantially lower, on net. These indexes moved up earlier in the period in connection with a perceived reduction in tail risks stemming from the war in Ukraine but then moved lower, reportedly because of increased caution regarding the economic outlook amid the expected tightening in U.S. monetary policy. The dollar appreciated, leaving the broad trade-weighted dollar up around 2 percent over the period. Viewed over a longer time horizon, financial conditions, as measured by many financial conditions indexes, had tightened by historically large amounts since the beginning of the year.

Market- and survey-based measures of U.S. inflation expectations continued to project a significant deceleration in inflation in the coming years. Nonetheless, far-forward inflation compensation rose over the period, and market participants remained attentive to the risk that, in bringing inflation back to 2 percent, the Committee would need to tighten by more than currently expected.

In global financial developments, many advanced-economy central banks raised policy rates over the period, and investors increasingly came to anticipate tighter monetary policy ahead in most advanced foreign economies. The Bank of Japan was an exception and was widely anticipated to maintain its accommodative policies. The yen depreciated 9 percent against the dollar over the intermeeting period to its weakest level in over two decades. Emerging market (EM) currencies remained relatively resilient. Market participants focused on the spread of COVID-19 in China and the effect of zero-COVID policies, which had resulted in increasingly widespread lockdowns. The renminbi depreciated against the dollar around 4 percent over the intermeeting period.

The manager turned next to a discussion of developments in money markets. The effective federal funds rate rose 25 basis points following the increase in the target range at the March FOMC meeting and remained stable throughout the period. Secured overnight rates also rose by 25 basis points following the March meeting, though modest softness emerged in subsequent days. Market participants noted that ongoing uncertainty about the near-term path of Federal Reserve policy had increased demand for very short-dated investments. This demand, combined with declining Treasury bill supply, contributed to the downward pressure on secured rates and to rising overnight reverse repurchase agreement (ON RRP) usage. The manager expected that ON RRP usage could remain elevated in coming months but anticipated that, over the longer term, usage would decline as balance sheet reduction proceeded.

The manager indicated that the Desk was prepared to implement the Committee's plan for balance sheet reduction and that, in the event that the Committee announced the plan at the end of the current meeting, the Desk would issue a statement and FAQs providing the public with details regarding the implementation of the plan. The Desk would closely monitor market conditions and update the Committee during the runoff process.

The deputy SOMA manager reviewed developments concerning Desk operations. The Desk planned to increase the publication frequency of data on ON RRP usage. This additional information would provide the public with greater transparency about usage of the ON RRP facility. The Desk planned to publish the SOMA annual report soon. In addition to the detailed review of open market operations over 2021, the report would include updated illustrative projections of the size and composition of the Federal Reserve's balance sheet over coming years. With respect to other operational matters, the Desk continued to work on details of plans for agency MBS CUSIP (Committee on Uniform Security Identification Procedures) aggregation and anticipated that this process would begin in coming months. Finally, the deputy manager requested that the Committee vote to maintain the standing U.S. dollar and foreign currency liquidity swap arrangements and to renew the reciprocal currency arrangements with Canada and Mexico under the North American Framework Agreement. In their discussion, participants widely agreed that the standing swap lines are a critical tool allowing the Federal Reserve to address global dollar funding pressures that could otherwise adversely affect the U.S. economy.

The Committee voted unanimously to renew the reciprocal currency arrangements with the Bank of Canada and the Bank of Mexico; these arrangements are associated with the Federal Reserve's participation in the North American Framework Agreement of 1994. In addition, the Committee voted unanimously to renew the dollar and foreign currency liquidity swap arrangements with the Bank of Canada, the Bank of England, the Bank of Japan, the European Central Bank, and the Swiss National Bank. The votes to renew the Federal Reserve's participation in these standing arrangements occur annually at the April or May FOMC meeting.

By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Desk's domestic transactions over the intermeeting period. There were no intervention operations in foreign currencies for the System's account during the intermeeting period.