Over the intermeeting period, both the market-implied expected path of the federal funds rate over the next year and nominal Treasury yields were little changed, on net, while real yields declined. Inflation compensation rose across the maturity spectrum—particularly at shorter horizons—reflecting, at least in part, perceived risks associated with trade policy developments.

Broad equity price indexes increased and credit spreads tightened, consistent with improving risk sentiment attributed in part to easing geopolitical tensions as well as stronger-than-expected economic activity. Credit spreads for all rating categories except the lowest-quality bonds narrowed to exceptionally low levels relative to their historical distribution. The VIX—a forward-looking measure of near-term equity market volatility—declined moderately to just below the median of its historical distribution.

Over the intermeeting period, news about trade policy interpreted as positive by investors together with some easing of geopolitical tensions in the Middle East led to moderate increases in foreign equity prices and longer-term yields. The broad dollar index was little changed on net.

Conditions in U.S. short-term funding markets remained orderly over the intermeeting period while displaying typical quarter-end dynamics. The One Big Beautiful Bill Act, which became law on July 4, ended the previous debt issuance suspension period, after which the TGA balance increased from $313 billion on July 3 to an expected $500 billion by the end of July. Rates in secured markets were, on average, somewhat elevated relative to the average over the previous intermeeting period, owing in part to quarter-end effects. Although upward pressure on repo rates was modest at quarter-end, take-up at the SRF was $11.1 billion on June 30—its highest level since the inception of the facility—as the addition of an early settlement option seemed to encourage participation. Average usage of the ON RRP facility was little changed over the intermeeting period.

In domestic credit markets, borrowing costs facing businesses, households, and municipalities eased moderately but remained elevated relative to post-Global Financial Crisis (GFC) average levels. Yields on both corporate bonds and leveraged loans declined modestly, while interest rates on small business loans were little changed on net. Rates on 30-year fixed-rate conforming residential mortgages were little changed and remained near the top of the post-GFC historical distribution. Interest rates on new auto loans and for new credit card offers have fluctuated in a narrow range in recent months around the upper end of their post-GFC distributions.

Credit remained generally available. Financing through capital markets and nonbank lenders was readily accessible for public corporations as well as large and middle-market private corporations. Issuance of nonfinancial corporate bonds and leveraged loans was solid in June, and private credit continued to be broadly available despite ebbing somewhat in May and June. Loan balances on banks' books increased at a moderate pace in the second quarter, led by growth in commercial and industrial (C&I) loans. Lending to small businesses remained subdued, an outcome attributed to weak borrower demand.

Banks in the July Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices reported that, on net, underwriting standards were little changed in the second quarter across most loan categories, although the level of standards remained on the tighter end of their historical range. C&I loan standards, however, were reported to be a little easier than the range seen since 2005, yet still somewhat tighter than in periods not associated with financial stress. Consumer credit continued to be readily available for high-credit-score borrowers, though growth in applications for home purchases, refinances, auto loans, and revolving credit was relatively weak, reflecting heightened borrowing costs and tighter credit standards for lower-credit-score borrowers.

In the second quarter, credit performance was generally stable but somewhat weaker than pre-pandemic levels. Corporate bond and leveraged loan credit performance declined moderately in May and June, though defaults remained below post-GFC medians through June. In the commercial real estate market, delinquency rates on commercial mortgage-backed securities remained elevated through June. The rate of serious delinquencies on Federal Housing Administration mortgages continued to be elevated. By contrast, delinquency rates on most other mortgage loan types continued to stay near historical lows. In May, the credit card delinquency rate was a little below its year-earlier value, while that for auto loans was roughly the same as in May last year; both were elevated relative to their pre-pandemic levels. Student loan delinquencies reported to credit bureaus shot up in the first quarter of the year after the expiration of the on-ramp period for student loan payments.

The staff provided an updated assessment of the stability of the U.S. financial system and, on balance, continued to characterize the system's financial vulnerabilities as notable. The staff judged that asset valuation pressures were elevated. In equity markets, price-to-earnings ratios stood at the upper end of their historical distribution, while spreads on high-yield corporate bonds narrowed notably and were low relative to their historical distribution. Housing valuations edged down but remained elevated.

Vulnerabilities associated with nonfinancial business and household debt were characterized as moderate. Household debt to GDP was at its lowest level in the past 20 years, and household balance sheets remained strong. The ability of publicly traded firms to service their debt remained solid. For private firms, debt grew at a rapid pace, while these firms' interest coverage ratios declined to the lower range of their historical distributions, suggesting that vulnerabilities may be growing in that sector.

Vulnerabilities associated with leverage in the financial sector were characterized as notable. Regulatory capital ratios in the banking sector remained high, while recent annual supervisory stress-test results showed that all participants stayed above minimum capital requirements even under stress conditions. Banks, however, were still seen as more exposed to interest rate risk than had been historically typical, albeit to a lesser degree than was the case earlier in the decade. In the nonbank sector, life insurers' allocation of assets toward private credit and risky assets, funded in part by nontraditional liabilities with short maturities, continued to grow. Leverage and rollover risk at hedge funds remained high and concentrated in the largest firms.

Vulnerabilities associated with funding risks were characterized as moderate. Money market funds (MMFs) continued to be vulnerable to runs, though the aggregate assets of such prime and prime-like investment vehicles remained in the middle of their historical range as a fraction of GDP. Prime-like alternatives—including private liquidity funds, offshore MMFs, and stablecoins—have grown rapidly and were noted as relatively less transparent.