The manager turned first to a review of financial market developments. Over the intermeeting period, the expected path of the policy rate and longer-term Treasury yields were little changed, equity prices increased, credit spreads narrowed, and the dollar depreciated slightly. The manager noted that markets continued to be attentive to news related to trade policy, though markets' reaction to incoming information on this topic was more restrained than in April and May. Against this backdrop, the manager reported that the Open Market Desk's Survey of Market Expectations (Desk survey) indicated that the median respondent's expectations regarding both real gross domestic product (GDP) growth and inflation were roughly unchanged.

The manager turned next to policy rate expectations, which held steady over the intermeeting period, consistent with a relatively stable macroeconomic outlook. The median modal path of the federal funds rate, as given in the Desk survey, was unchanged from the corresponding path in the June survey and continued to indicate expectations of two 25 basis point rate cuts in the second half of this year. Market-based measures of policy rate expectations were also little changed and indicated expectations of one to two 25 basis point rate cuts by the end of the year.

The manager then discussed developments in Treasury securities markets and market-based measures of inflation compensation. Nominal Treasury yields were little changed, on net, over the intermeeting period, consistent with the lack of appreciable changes in the macroeconomic outlook and in policy rate expectations. Perceived risks associated with trade policy developments contributed to an increase in near-term market measures of inflation compensation, while longer-horizon measures of inflation compensation rose more modestly.

The manager then turned to market pricing of risky assets. The increases in equity prices and narrowing of credit spreads suggested that markets assessed that the overall U.S. economy was remaining resilient; still, financial markets appeared to be making distinctions between individual corporations on the basis of the size and quality of their earnings. Valuations of the S&P 500 index continued to move above long-run average levels, mostly driven by optimism about the largest technology firms' scope to benefit from the further adoption of artificial intelligence (AI). However, valuations of an index of smaller-capitalization firms, although higher over the intermeeting period, remained below their historical averages.

Regarding foreign exchange developments, the manager noted that the broad trade-weighted dollar index had continued to depreciate since the previous FOMC meeting but at a slower pace than in recent intermeeting periods. At the same time, the manager noted that correlations between the dollar and its fundamental drivers had normalized recently. The available data continued to suggest relative stability in foreign holdings of U.S. assets.

The manager turned next to money markets. Unsecured overnight rates remained stable over the intermeeting period. Rates on Treasury repurchase agreements (repo) were somewhat higher than the low levels seen in the previous intermeeting period. The manager observed that two factors contributed to this slight increase: the normal upward pressure on money market rates associated with the June quarter-end; and the rise in net Treasury bill issuance amid the rebuilding of the Treasury General Account (TGA) balance following the increase in the debt limit in early July. On June 30, as market rates climbed modestly above the standing repo facility's (SRF) minimum bid rate at quarter-end, there was material usage of the facility, with counterparties borrowing a bit more than $11 billion, the highest utilization to date.

The manager also discussed the projected trajectory of various Federal Reserve liabilities. With increased Treasury bill issuance associated with the rebuilding of the TGA balance likely to result in a rise in money market rates, take-up at the overnight reverse repurchase agreement (ON RRP) facility was expected to decline to low levels relatively soon. Market indicators continued to suggest that reserves remained abundant; however, ongoing System Open Market Account (SOMA) portfolio runoff, a substantial expected increase in the TGA balance, and the depletion of the ON RRP facility were together likely to bring about a sustained decline in reserves for the first time since portfolio runoff started in June 2022. Against this backdrop, the staff would continue to monitor indicators of reserve conditions closely. The manager also noted that there would be times—such as quarter-ends, tax dates, and days associated with large settlements of Treasury securities—when reserves were likely to dip temporarily to even lower levels. At those times, utilization of the SRF would likely support the smooth functioning of money markets and the implementation of monetary policy.

By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Desk's domestic transactions over the intermeeting period. There were no intervention operations in foreign currencies for the System's account during the intermeeting period.