The information available at the time of the meeting indicated that real GDP expanded at a tepid pace in the first half of the year. The unemployment rate continued to be low, and consumer price inflation remained somewhat elevated.

Disinflation appeared to have stalled, with tariffs putting upward pressure on goods price inflation. Total consumer price inflation—as measured by the 12-month change in the price index for personal consumption expenditures (PCE)—was estimated to have been 2.5 percent in June, based on the consumer and producer price indexes. Core PCE price inflation, which excludes changes in consumer energy prices and many consumer food prices, was estimated to have been 2.7 percent in June. Both inflation rates were similar to their year-earlier levels.

Recent data indicated that labor market conditions remained solid. The unemployment rate was 4.1 percent in June, down 0.1 percentage point from May. The participation rate edged down 0.1 percentage point in June, and the employment-to-population ratio was unchanged. Total nonfarm payroll gains were solid in June, though the pace of private payroll gains stepped down noticeably. The ratio of job vacancies to unemployed workers was 1.1 in June and remained within the narrow range seen over the past year. Average hourly earnings for all employees rose 3.7 percent over the 12 months ending in June, slightly lower than the year-earlier pace.

According to the advance estimate, real GDP rose in the second quarter after declining in the first quarter. Growth of real private domestic final purchases—which comprises PCE and private fixed investment and which often provides a better signal than GDP of underlying economic momentum—slowed in the second quarter, as a step-down in investment growth offset faster PCE growth.

After exerting a substantial negative drag on GDP growth in the first quarter, net exports made a large positive contribution in the second quarter. Real imports of goods and services declined sharply, likely reflecting the aftereffects of the substantial front-loading of imports recorded in the first quarter ahead of anticipated tariff hikes. By contrast, exports of goods declined at a more moderate pace, and exports of services rose further.

Abroad, activity indicators pointed to a slowdown of foreign economic growth in the second quarter, as the transitory boost due to the front-loading of U.S. imports earlier in the year faded. Of note, monthly GDP data through May indicated that economic activity contracted in Canada. China's GDP, however, continued to expand at a moderate pace in the second quarter, supported by solid domestic spending.

Headline inflation rates were near targets in most foreign economies, held down by past declines in oil prices and fading wage pressures following a tightening in monetary policy stances over the past few years. However, core inflation remained somewhat elevated in some foreign economies.

Over the intermeeting period, several foreign central banks, such as the Bank of Mexico and the Swiss National Bank, further eased their monetary policy stance, while others, such as the Bank of England and the European Central Bank, held their policy rates steady. In their communications, foreign central banks continued to emphasize that U.S. trade policies and accompanying uncertainty have started to weigh on economic activity in their economies.