The information reviewed at this meeting indicated that the economy continued to expand in the third quarter, though the tenor of incoming reports was mixed. Data on household and business spending had been solid for the most part, and residential construction remained high. Motor vehicle production provided a sizable boost to economic activity, but other factory output changed little on net. Employment continued to expand unevenly, while labor productivity remained on a strong upward trend. Overall price inflation had fallen over the past year, reflecting favorable developments in the food and energy sectors and a decline in core inflation.

Aggregate labor market conditions had been mixed in recent months. While nonfarm payroll employment registered further small gains in July and August, the aggregate hours worked by production or nonsupervisory workers declined on balance over the two-month period. The manufacturing and retail trade sectors registered sharp job losses in August, but those were more than offset by hiring in the services and construction sectors. A hefty increase in government jobs at the federal, state, and local levels also boosted payroll employment. The civilian unemployment rate fell to 5.7 percent in August despite advances in claims for unemployment insurance.

Industrial production declined in August, largely offsetting July’s rise. Excluding motor vehicles, manufacturing output was unchanged in both July and August after sizable advances in the first half of the year. Production in the high-tech sector jumped in August, the manufacture of aircraft and parts fell further, and output in the remainder of the industrial sector was mixed. Capacity utilization in manufacturing changed little in August and was substantially below its long-run average.

Retail sales remained relatively brisk in August despite further decreases in stock prices and consumer confidence. Households boosted their already high level of spending on motor vehicles in response to zero percent financing and larger cash incentives offered by auto manufacturers, and household purchases of goods other than motor vehicles continued to advance at a moderate pace. According to the latest available data, outlays for services rose moderately in July.

Residential housing activity slowed a little in July and August from the robust pace of the second quarter as further declines in mortgage rates apparently helped to support housing activity in an environment of sluggish employment and diminishing household wealth. Starts of single-family units fell in August to their lowest rate since last November, while starts in the multifamily sector in the July-August period were at their average rate for the first half of the year. Sales of new single-family homes posted a record high in July, and the inventory of unsold new homes remained low. Sales of existing single-family homes in July partially retraced a large drop in June.

Based on the limited information available, business investment in equipment and software seemed to be advancing at a solid pace in the third quarter. This reflected an acceleration in spending that was associated importantly with notably stronger motor vehicle sales and a halt to the contraction in aircraft expenditures. Outside the transportation sector, outlays on equipment continued to expand at a moderate pace; in addition, the level of orders in July (latest data) moved above shipments for the first time since early last year, and the backlog of unfilled orders edged up. Nonresidential construction activity remained on a steep downtrend in July, with further reductions of spending in all major categories except office buildings.

The book value of manufacturing and trade inventories excluding motor vehicles registered a second straight monthly gain in July after many months of heavy liquidation. Despite the rise in stocks, gains in sales and shipments drove inventory-sales ratios to even lower levels across the manufacturing, wholesale, and retail sectors. Survey and anecdotal information suggested that few industries were burdened with sizable inventory overhangs.

The U.S. trade deficit in goods and services narrowed appreciably in July after two quarters of large increases. The smaller deficit in July reflected continued strong expansion of the value of exports coupled with a decrease in the value of imports. The step-up in goods exports occurred mostly in motor vehicles and aircraft, while the gain in exports of services was spread across travel and other private services. The decline in imports was concentrated in consumer and capital goods, royalties, and license fees. The very limited available information on economic activity abroad in the third quarter suggested continued sluggish expansion in the euro area and Japan, moderate growth in the United Kingdom, further brisk recovery in Canada, and ongoing recovery in emerging Asia. Conditions in South America remained fragile: Economic activity was still very weak in Argentina and Venezuela, and the Brazilian economy had been adversely affected by the turbulence in financial markets, though those markets had stabilized recently. By contrast, Mexico experienced brisk growth in the second quarter.

Despite a slight pickup in consumer price inflation in August, the increase in consumer prices (measured by either the consumer price index or the chain-indexed personal consumption expenditure index) for the year ending in August was considerably smaller than that for the previous twelve-month period. Much of the drop in inflation reflected developments in the food and energy sectors, but core inflation also declined noticeably. Producer prices for core finished goods likewise signaled a drop in inflation over the last year. With regard to labor costs, average hourly earnings of production or nonsupervisory workers decelerated sharply over the twelve months ended in August, reflecting the effects of both the rise in unemployment and the drop in consumer price inflation.