In the Committee’s discussion of current and prospective economic conditions, members commented that economic growth appeared to have picked up in the third quarter but that the most recent information had been mixed, raising questions about whether the pace of the expansion going forward would be strong enough to erode margins of underutilized labor and capital resources. For now, a high degree of business caution in the context of substantial uncertainties, exacerbated recently by apparently increased concerns about the geopolitical outlook, continued to restrain business investment and hiring. Even so, the economy appeared to be well positioned for solid gains over time in light of the progress that had been made in bringing inventories and capital stocks into better alignment with sales, the stimulus provided by accommodative fiscal and monetary policies, and the implications of the strong uptrend in productivity for profitable investment opportunities and growth in consumer incomes. With the growth of economic activity nonetheless expected to remain below the economy’s potential for some time, pressures on labor and other resources would be limited and in turn wage and price increases likely would continue to edge lower.

In their review of developments in and prospects for key sectors of the economy, members commented that household spending had continued to be well maintained. Buttressed by exceptional strength in sales of motor vehicles, consumer spending had displayed solid growth during the summer months. While survey indicators of consumer confidence had declined this year, the high levels of consumer spending on homes, motor vehicles, and other big-ticket items were, in the view of at least some members, perhaps a better gauge of consumer confidence. The value of homes had continued to rise in most areas, and unusually low interest rates were inducing people to refinance mortgages and in the process to extract and spend some of the embedded equity gains. Increasing home equity values probably were also providing some counterweight to the impact on consumer spending of the negative wealth effects associated with the declines in stock market prices since the spring of 2000. Other positive factors cited as helping to undergird the persisting strength in consumer spending included reductions in federal income tax rates; the availability of financing for consumer durable goods at relatively attractive interest rates, including zero interest rates for selected motor vehicles; and the cumulative effects of productivity gains on current and expected real consumer incomes. Looking ahead, sales of motor vehicles likely would moderate to some extent over coming months from their currently unsustainable levels, and some members referred to indications of slower growth in retail sales in late summer and somewhat downbeat forecasts for coming months reported by a number of retailer contacts. Moreover, the absence of significant growth in employment, should it persist, could at some point have significant adverse repercussions on consumer spending. On balance, consumer spending was seen as likely to remain a positive but possibly a more limited source of support for the expansion over the next several quarters.

In the context of sustained growth in incomes, low mortgage interest rates, by facilitating the extraction of homeowners’ equity, had played a key role in inducing a high level of spending on residential structures and home improvement expenditures. Tending to confirm currently available data on housing activity, members cited persisting anecdotal reports of robust home sales and residential construction in many regions, though indications of softening were noted in some areas and market segments, particularly in the high-price sector of the housing market. Some members questioned whether generally rising housing prices and elevated levels of refinancings would persist. However, given the anticipated continuation of accommodative conditions in mortgage markets and forecasts of rising incomes, the overall outlook for housing remained favorable.

Business fixed investment remained a significant question mark in the outlook for economic expansion. Recent readings on business spending for equipment and software pointed to gradual improvement, but nonresidential construction activity continued to be severely depressed in many areas. It was unclear whether the recent strength in orders and shipments signaled a significant acceleration in capital outlays, and in this regard the new information that would become available in the next few weeks might provide important evidence on the outlook for capital spending and thus for the performance of the economy more generally. At least for now, however, anecdotal reports suggested that a high degree of caution continued to characterize business investment decisions in the face of an elevated level of uncertainty. Much of the current spending for equipment and software reportedly represented replacement demand largely associated with the short useful lives of various types of equipment, and there appeared to be little spending that would entail capital deepening. At the same time, several positive factors in the outlook for capital spending could be cited including the greater productivity of new capital equipment, the temporary accelerated expensing tax incentives, generally strong business cash positions, and the relatively rapid depreciation of existing capital equipment. For the present, however, business contacts widely reported that because of prevailing uncertainties they were deferring major investment initiatives until they saw clear evidence of an increased need for capital to meet growing demand.

Business firms appeared to be in the process of moving from inventory liquidation to accumulation, and the available evidence suggested that inventory positions were getting tighter. Accordingly, prospective growth in final demand would have to be met through increased production. And as demand rose over the next several quarters, businesses were expected to accumulate inventories to maintain desired inventory-sales ratios, adding in the process some limited impetus to the growth of GDP.

The growth of economic activity in most major foreign countries appeared to be falling below expectations earlier in the year, with adverse implications for U.S. exports. Among those nations, only Canada had experienced a robust economic recovery thus far this year. Current forecasts continued to anticipate strengthening activity abroad, but as in the case of the U.S. economy substantial uncertainties surrounded the timing and pace of the improvement.

In the context of limited demand pressures on labor and other resources, current forecasts continued to point to quite low and perhaps declining inflation over the next several quarters, although there appeared to be significant crosscurrents in the outlook for prices. Rapid increases in healthcare and other insurance costs and the lagged passthrough of large increases in oil prices would tend to maintain upward pressure on prices. Tending to oppose those forces, though, were the effects on resource use of an extended period of economic activity below the economy’s potential as well as the effects of robust productivity gains on costs, apparently declining inflation expectations, and the persistent absence of pricing power in highly competitive markets. Indeed, the members did not rule out the emergence of appreciably lower inflation. In this regard, some observed that a significant decline in inflation from current levels could imply an unwelcome tightening of monetary policy in real terms. In addition, further sizable disinflation that resulted in a nominal inflation rate near zero could create problems for the implementation of monetary policy through conventional means in the event of an adverse shock to the economy that called for negative real policy interest rates.

In the Committee’s discussion of policy for the intermeeting period ahead, all but two of the members endorsed a proposal to maintain an unchanged policy stance. In the view of all the members, current forecasts clearly were subject to the risk that economic growth would not be sufficient to reduce excess capacity in labor and capital markets. However, the members who favored a steady policy course noted that the recent data on household and business spending had been a bit stronger than expected and that a number of factors pointed to solid growth over time. In these circumstances, they believed that in the context of prevailing uncertainties more evidence of subpar expansion was desirable before policy was eased further. It was noted in this regard that the information that would become available over the next several weeks should provide an improved basis for assessing the recent anecdotal reports from around the nation that pointed to a possibly slowing expansion. Several members indicated that if compelling evidence of a weak economy were to materialize they would be prepared to ease promptly. Two members preferred an immediate easing action because they were persuaded by what they viewed as already strong evidence of a persisting unsatisfactory, and perhaps weakening, economic performance. While the current stance of policy was already accommodative, they felt that greater stimulus was now called for to foster an acceptable pace of economic expansion.

All the members agreed that the risks to the economy remained tilted toward weakness and that such an assessment needed to be incorporated in the statement to be released shortly after today’s meeting. The members also accepted a proposal to add a reference in the statement regarding what they viewed as recently heightened geopolitical risks that appeared to constitute a major source of the uncertainty currently prevailing in the economy. The addition was not intended to signal that any particular policy response would be forthcoming in the event of a crisis. Rather, consistent with its usual practice, the Committee would assess the implications of any such development for the domestic economy before deciding on an action. Indeed, if the geopolitical uncertainties were to ease significantly along with what already were apparently diminishing concerns about corporate governance issues, the resulting improvement in business and consumer sentiment could generate a more robust economic expansion.