At its meeting on August 13, 2002, the Committee retained a directive that called for maintaining conditions in reserve markets consistent with keeping the intended level of the federal funds rate at 1-3/4 percent, but it shifted from a statement of a neutral balance of risks to one that was tilted toward economic weakness in the foreseeable future. Market participants read the tilt and the wording of the announcement as indicating that economic activity in the coming months likely would be weaker than had been expected, and some short-term interest rates eased slightly while broad indexes of equity prices moved lower. The following day’s deadline for the recertification of corporate financial statements passed uneventfully and equity markets rallied. Subsequently, however, a weaker tone to incoming data on production and employment, a gloomier outlook for business profits, and heightening tensions over Iraq seemed to lead investors to revise down their outlook for the economy. Over the intermeeting period, intermediate- and longer-term Treasury security yields and broad equity indexes fell considerably on balance.

In foreign exchange markets, the trade-weighted value of the dollar in terms of the major foreign currencies appreciated slightly on balance over the intermeeting period as projections for growth of foreign industrial countries, particularly Germany and Japan, were marked down more than those for the United States. The dollar moved within narrow ranges against most major currencies but rose somewhat against the yen and the currencies of other important trading partners.

M2 growth remained elevated in August, though somewhat below July’s rapid pace. Much of the strength of the aggregate’s liquid components likely was associated with the continuing historically low opportunity costs of holding such deposits, the recent surge in mortgage refinancing activity, and the safe haven provided from volatile equity prices. Borrowing by domestic nonfinancial businesses remained weak, likely reflecting reduced requirements for funds to finance capital spending projects and perhaps the improved tone in the corporate bond market and a modest increase in the issuance of corporate debt.