The information reviewed at the January meeting, which included the advance data on the national income and product accounts for the fourth quarter, showed that economic expansion had picked up in the fourth quarter of 2006, but was uneven across sectors. Considerable vigor in consumer spending late last year boosted economic growth in the fourth quarter, supported by further increases in employment and income. A surge in net exports and a pickup in defense spending also raised output growth last quarter, but these factors were expected to prove largely transitory. The decline in residential construction continued to weigh on overall activity, but some indications of stabilization in the demand for homes had emerged. Outlays for business fixed investment softened in the fourth quarter. Although a spike in energy prices lifted total consumer price inflation in December, readings on core inflation had edged lower in recent months.

The labor market exhibited continued strength through year-end. Nonfarm payrolls rose robustly again in December, driven by further gains in the service-producing sectors. Employment in the manufacturing and construction industries declined further, but by less than in the previous several months. Aggregate hours of private production or nonsupervisory workers edged up further. The unemployment rate held steady at 4.5 percent.

Industrial production firmed in December after having softened in the preceding three months. Output of manufacturing industries rose noticeably in December after being flat in November; the increase was associated with sizable gains in the production of semiconductors, computers, and commercial aircraft. Motor vehicle output turned up in November and December, but remained low compared with earlier in the year as vehicle makers continued their efforts to pare inventories. After contracting in November, output in the mining sector increased in December, boosted by a rise in the production of crude oil. In contrast, unseasonably warm weather caused a sharp cutback in the output of utilities in December.

Real consumer spending rose briskly in November and December, buoyed by sizable increases in outlays for non-auto consumer goods. Spending on services, in contrast, appeared to be expanding only moderately toward year-end, as warmer-than-usual temperatures led to a drop in real outlays for energy services in November and probably damped expenditures in that category again in December. Real disposable income posted solid gains in October and November and likely rose further in December, reflecting increases in wages and salaries and further declines in energy prices. Although house-price appreciation appeared to have slowed further since the end of the third quarter, robust gains in equity prices likely resulted in a small rise in the ratio of household wealth to disposable income last quarter. Readings on consumer sentiment moved up at the end of last year and held steady in early 2007.

Residential construction activity remained quite weak late last year, but home sales showed some tentative signs of stabilization. Single-family housing starts declined modestly in December, reversing about half of November's gain. However, new permit issuance edged up in December after having moved down steadily for nearly a year. Construction in the multifamily sector, which accounts for a much smaller share of new home construction, rose sharply in December to the upper end of the range that has prevailed over the past decade. Sales of existing single-family homes held steady in November and rose in December, while sales of new homes inched up in both months. Inventories of unsold homes remained considerable although they ticked down in December for the second straight month. The most timely indicators of home prices, which are not adjusted for changes in quality or the mix of homes sold, pointed to small declines.

After having risen at a solid average pace in the first three quarters of last year, real investment in equipment and software fell in the fourth quarter. Business outlays on transportation equipment, a volatile spending category, dropped considerably. Sales of light vehicles to business customers declined to their lowest level in two years, which more than offset a surge in sales of medium and heavy trucks ahead of stricter regulations on truck engine emissions that went into effect this year. Spending on high-tech capital goods moderated. Outside of the transportation and high-tech sectors, real spending declined last quarter. That weakness appeared to be concentrated in equipment related to construction and motor vehicle manufacturing. Nonresidential construction activity decelerated late last quarter; however, indicators of future expenditures in this sector remained firm, with office and industrial vacancy rates somewhat below their historical averages. Overall, prospects for business spending continued to be supported by robust corporate cash flow and a low cost of capital.

Business inventories remained elevated in the fourth quarter. In November, the book-value ratio of inventories to sales for the manufacturing and trade sectors (excluding motor vehicles) stood near its highest level since early 2005. Although relatively high ratios of inventories to sales appeared to be associated in part with developments in the homebuilding and motor vehicle sectors, some indications of inventory imbalances in other sectors had recently become evident.

The U.S. international trade deficit narrowed again in October, primarily reflecting declines in both the price and volume of imported oil. In addition, imports of non-oil industrial supplies, capital goods, and automotive products fell, offsetting small increases in imports of consumer goods, food, and services. In November, the trade deficit edged down further--to its smallest level since mid-2005--as export growth outpaced a modest increase in non-oil imports, and oil imports remained flat.

Economic activity in the advanced foreign economies appeared to have accelerated in the fourth quarter, supported by a broad-based firming of domestic demand and strong employment gains. In the euro area, consumer sentiment was lifted by lower unemployment, and economic growth continued at a solid pace. After contracting in the third quarter, consumption spending in Japan apparently rebounded last quarter, providing significant support to economic activity. The expansion in the United Kingdom's economy strengthened, likely reflecting a pickup in consumption growth. Output growth in Canada seemed to have firmed but likely remained below trend. Recent economic data for the emerging-market economies pointed to some moderation in the pace of growth in the fourth quarter. In China, the most recent evidence suggested that growth had remained strong.

While large fluctuations in energy prices continued to cause swings in overall consumer price inflation in recent months, readings on core inflation improved. Overall consumer prices were flat in November, but turned up in December because of a surge in retail energy prices that month. Still, the rise in the price index for personal consumption expenditures over the twelve months ending in December was estimated to have been noticeably less than that of the year-earlier period. Prices for personal consumption expenditures other than those for food and energy were estimated to have increased slightly faster over the twelve months of 2006 than they did a year earlier. However, the three-month change in core prices in December likely was down considerably from its peak in May. Year-over-year increases in average hourly earnings late last year continued to run ahead of those a year earlier. However, hourly compensation of private industry workers, as measured by the employment cost index, rose at a moderate rate in the three months ending in December, a touch below the pace registered in the previous quarter. Survey measures of households' year-ahead inflation expectations held steady through January at levels that were below those reported in the second and third quarters of last year, and respondents' longer-term inflation expectations had been unchanged since ticking down in the middle of 2006.

At its December meeting, the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) decided to maintain its target for the federal funds rate at 5-1/4 percent. The Committee's accompanying statement noted that economic growth had slowed over the course of the year, partly reflecting a substantial cooling of the housing market. Although recent indicators had been mixed, the economy seemed likely to expand at a moderate pace on balance over coming quarters. Readings on core inflation had been elevated, and the high level of resource utilization had the potential to sustain inflation pressures. However, inflation pressures seemed likely to moderate over time, reflecting reduced impetus from energy prices, contained inflation expectations, and the cumulative effects of monetary policy actions and other factors restraining aggregate demand. Nonetheless, the Committee judged that some inflation risks remained. The extent and timing of any additional firming that may be needed to address these risks would depend on the evolution of the outlook for both inflation and economic growth, as implied by incoming information.