In their discussion of the economic situation and outlook, meeting participants noted that the economic information received since the last meeting pointed to a somewhat more favorable outlook regarding both inflation and economic growth than they had earlier anticipated. Incoming data suggesting a leveling out in housing demand and strength in consumer spending outside the housing sector supported the view that the expansion remained resilient despite the appreciable decline in housing activity and recent weakness in the manufacturing sector. Over the next several quarters, economic activity would likely advance at a pace at or modestly below the economy's trend rate of growth. Thereafter, growth was likely to return to around its trend rate, which several participants viewed as likely to be higher than the staff's estimate. Favorable readings on core inflation and lower energy prices had also improved the odds that inflation pressures would diminish. However, it was noted that the prevailing level of inflation was uncomfortably high, and resource utilization was elevated. The upside risks to inflation remained the Committee's predominant concern.

In preparation for the Federal Reserve's semiannual report to the Congress on the economy and monetary policy, the members of the Board of Governors and the presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks submitted individual projections of the growth of nominal and real GDP, the rate of unemployment, and core consumer price inflation for the years 2007 and 2008, conditioned on their views of the appropriate path for monetary policy. The projections of the growth of nominal GDP were in the range of 4-3/4 to 5-1/2 percent for both years, with a central tendency of 5 to 5-1/2 percent for 2007 and 4-3/4 to 5-1/4 percent for 2008. Projections of the rate of expansion in real GDP for 2007 were in the 2-1/4 to 3-1/4 percent range, with a central tendency of 2-1/2 to 3 percent; for 2008 the forecasts were in the slightly higher range of 2-1/2 to 3-1/4 percent, with a central tendency of 2-3/4 to 3 percent. These rates of growth were associated with a civilian unemployment rate in the range of 4-1/2 to 4-3/4 percent in the fourth quarter of 2007 and 4-1/2 to 5 percent in the fourth quarter of 2008; the central tendency of these projections was 4-1/2 to 4-3/4 percent for both years. The rate of inflation, as measured by the core PCE price index, was projected to edge down from a range of 2 to 2-1/4 percent in 2007, with the central tendency being the same, to a range of 1-1/2 to 2-1/4 percent in 2008, centered on 1-3/4 to 2 percent.

In their discussion of the major sectors of the economy, participants noted that the housing market showed tentative signs of stabilization in most regions. Anecdotal reports presented a mixed picture, with fairly firm home sales in some areas but continuing decline in others. But aggregate data indicated that home sales, which had been essentially flat since mid-year, had risen a bit during the fourth quarter. Mortgage applications for home purchases had risen from their low levels of last summer. Sentiment among homebuilders reportedly had improved in the past few months, and the inventory of new homes for sale had fallen. Nonetheless, participants noted that inventories remained elevated and needed to be worked down before growth in this sector resumed. Unseasonably warm weather so far this winter complicated the interpretation of recent data, but participants were optimistic that the risk of a much larger contraction in housing had diminished and that the drag on growth from the housing sector would ease later this year.

Participants saw continued gains in employment and incomes and lower energy prices as sustaining solid growth in consumer spending. Contacts reported healthy holiday sales in many regions, particularly late in the Christmas season. In addition, the growth of gift cards was mentioned as a factor that likely boosted retail sales in January. To date, weakness in the housing market had not appeared to have spilled over to aggregate consumption, although some such effect could not be ruled out as the growth in households' home equity slowed. The recent strength of consumption spending, together with favorable readings from consumer sentiment surveys, suggested that households were optimistic about prospects for employment and income. Indeed, the possibility that the personal saving rate would fail to rise as in the staff forecast was cited by some participants as posing a significant upside risk to the outlook.

Meeting participants noted that continued gains in nonresidential construction spending were offsetting some of the weakness on the residential side. Further advances in nonresidential investment were likely. Office vacancy rates were reported as declining in some areas. However, the recent decrease in energy prices had already led to a reduction in drilling activity and was likely to reduce some investment in alternative fuels. Participants noted that business fixed investment overall continued to be weaker than anticipated, suggesting some caution on the part of businesses in expanding capacity. Nonetheless, participants expected that, going forward, favorable financial conditions, strong corporate balance sheets, high profitability, and growth in sales would support a firming of investment spending.

Net exports were unexpectedly strong in the fourth quarter. In part, this development could be attributed to a temporary reduction in petroleum imports as a result of the unseasonably warm weather. Although imports were likely to pick up again, global economic growth, which had been strong of late, was expected to continue to provide ongoing support for growth in exports.

The more favorable budget positions of the state and local governments were seen as permitting additional spending by such governmental units and hence as an additional source of stimulus to the economy. Strong federal tax receipts suggested that personal incomes were expanding vigorously.

Participants reported some continuing softness in manufacturing, primarily in industries related to housing or automobiles. The recent slackness in manufacturing activity appeared to be largely an inventory correction, which participants expected would be completed this year. Participants noted that the tone of contacts in the industrial sector was generally more positive than at the time of the December meeting, and some survey information pointed to expectations of a rebound in manufacturing activity later this year. However, the recent declines in energy prices were likely to restrain energy extraction as well as activity in associated energy-producing sectors.

Many participants observed that labor markets remained relatively taut, with significant wage pressures being reported in some occupations. In addition to the continuing shortages of skilled workers in technical and professional fields, recent reports suggested a scarcity of less skilled and unskilled workers in some areas of the country. One participant observed that some of the sluggishness in manufacturing job growth could be due to difficulties in hiring rather than indicating weakness in demand. So far, aggregate measures of labor compensation were showing only moderate increases, but looking ahead, the possibility that labor costs might rise more rapidly as a result of the tightness in labor market was seen as an upside risk to inflation.

All meeting participants expressed some concern about the outlook for inflation. To be sure, incoming data had suggested some improvement in core inflation, and a further gradual decline was seen as the most likely outcome, fostered in part by the continued stability of inflation expectations. However, participants did not yet see a downtrend in core inflation as definitively established. Although lower energy prices, declining core import prices, and a deceleration in owners' equivalent rent were expected to contribute to slower core inflation in coming months, the effects of some of these factors on inflation could well be temporary. The influence of more enduring factors, importantly including pressures in labor and product markets and the behavior of inflation expectations, would primarily determine the extent of more persistent progress. In light of the apparent underlying strength in aggregate demand, risks around the desired path of a further gradual decline in core inflation remained mainly to the upside. Participants emphasized that a failure of inflation to moderate as expected could impair the long-term performance of the economy.