The projection for U.S. economic activity prepared by the staff for the September FOMC meeting was broadly similar to the July projection. In the second half of 2021, supply constraints were expected to resolve more slowly than previously assumed; in addition, the recent rise in COVID‑19 cases was viewed as likely to exert a larger amount of restraint on consumer spending, hiring, and labor supply than previously anticipated. Even so, real GDP was expected to post a sizable gain over the second half of 2021 and over the year as a whole, resulting in a correspondingly large decline in the unemployment rate. In 2022, GDP was expected to rise more slowly than in 2021 but at a still-solid pace, supported by the continued reopening of the economy and an easing of supply constraints. With the boost from these factors fading, real GDP growth was projected to step down noticeably in 2023 and to be roughly equal to potential output growth in 2023 and 2024. However, the level of real GDP was expected to remain well above potential throughout the projection period, resulting in a decline in the unemployment rate to historically low levels.

The staff's near-term outlook for inflation was revised up further in response to incoming data, but the staff continued to expect that this year's rise in inflation would prove to be transitory. The 12-month change in total and core PCE prices was well above 2 percent in July, and available data suggested that PCE price inflation had remained high in August. The staff interpreted recent inflation data as indicating that supply constraints were putting a larger amount of upward pressure on prices than previously anticipated; relative to the July projection, these supply constraints were also expected to take longer to resolve. As a result, the 12‑month change in PCE prices was projected to hold roughly steady over the remainder of 2021 and to end the year well above 2 percent. Over the following year, the boost to consumer prices caused by supply issues was expected to partly reverse and import prices were expected to decelerate sharply. PCE price inflation was therefore expected to step down to a little below 2 percent in 2022; thereafter, additional increases in resource utilization were expected to cause it to gradually edge higher and to reach 2 percent in 2024.

The staff continued to judge that the risks to the baseline projection for economic activity were skewed to the downside. In particular, the future course of the pandemic was seen as an important source of downside risk. The staff also continued to judge that the risks around the inflation projection were tilted to the upside, with the possibility of more severe and persistent supply issues viewed as especially salient. In addition, the staff pointed to a risk that longer-run inflation expectations would move appreciably higher and lead to persistently elevated inflation.