Financial market prices were little changed over the intermeeting period. Concerns over the period about the effects of COVID-19 developments on economic performance and, late in the period, about a heavily indebted Chinese property developer appeared to have only marginal net effects on financial asset prices. The incoming domestic economic data were generally viewed as mixed. Yields on Treasury securities of intermediate maturities increased modestly, the market-implied path of the federal funds rate steepened, domestic equity prices were unchanged, and speculative-grade corporate bond spreads narrowed modestly. Short-term funding markets were stable. Market-based financing conditions were robust, and credit availability improved for riskier borrowers.

Yields on intermediate-maturity Treasury securities increased modestly, on net, amid mixed news on economic activity and the pandemic, and slightly less-accommodative-than-expected July FOMC communications. Measures of inflation compensation declined modestly, on net. The market-implied level of the effective federal funds rate for the ends of 2023 and 2024 rose 12 and 17 basis points, respectively.

Broad stock market prices were about unchanged, on net, over the intermeeting period. Early in the period, concerns over the Delta variant were a headwind for stock prices. Prices recovered following the FDA's first full approval of a COVID-19 vaccine and signs that the Delta variant surge was starting to abate. Over the intermeeting period, spreads of yields on speculative-grade corporate bonds over those on comparable-maturity Treasury securities narrowed slightly, on net. Investment-grade corporate bond spreads were little changed, on net, and spreads of municipal bond indexes increased slightly but remained well below pre-pandemic levels. On September 20, stock market prices fell notably and speculative-grade yield spreads widened amid rising concerns about the creditworthiness of a Chinese property developer, but these moves were mostly reversed during the following day, particularly in the stock market.

Short-term funding markets were stable over the intermeeting period. The effective federal funds rate declined slightly, from 10 basis points at the beginning of the period to 8 basis points at the end, while the SOFR remained at 5 basis points throughout the period. Assets under management (AUM) of government money market mutual funds increased modestly to near all-time highs. Treasury bill supply continued to decline with the reinstatement of the debt ceiling. Higher AUM together with declining Treasury bill supply led government money market mutual funds to increase their participation at the Federal Reserve's ON RRP facility. Participation in ON RRP operations increased from an average of $808 billion over the previous intermeeting period to $1.08 trillion.

Foreign asset prices fluctuated moderately over the intermeeting period as market participants continued to assess the effect of the Delta variant on global growth and inflation. Concerns about a potential default by a heavily indebted Chinese property developer and risks of a downturn in the Chinese real estate sector intensified later in the period, but effects on broader financial markets were limited. On balance, major foreign equity indexes were mixed, the broad dollar appreciated a touch, and sovereign yields in most major AFEs increased moderately. In the euro area and the United Kingdom, higher-than-expected inflation data contributed to the rise in yields and inflation compensation measures.

In domestic credit markets, large nonfinancial firms had ample access to market-based financing as market participants appeared confident in the domestic corporate credit outlook. After accounting for the seasonal summer lull in activity, gross corporate bond issuance remained solid in July and August. Leveraged loan issuance was also strong in July and August. Equity funding raised through traditional initial public offerings remained robust over the summer, while equity issuance through special purpose acquisition companies remained at the subdued levels seen in recent months. Commercial and industrial (C&I) loans declined notably through August, amid ongoing forgiveness of Paycheck Protection Program (PPP) loans. Excluding PPP loans, C&I loan balances were estimated to have been largely unchanged between June and July.

The credit quality of large nonfinancial corporations remained strong with a positive outlook. The volume of credit rating upgrades for nonfinancial bonds outpaced downgrades noticeably in July and August. Trailing default rates on corporate bonds and leveraged loans remained low, as did market indicators of future default expectations.

In the municipal bond market, financing conditions remained accommodative. Issuance of municipal debt was strong in July and August and indicators of credit quality of municipal debt remained healthy, though municipal bond impairments—that is, credit events that are less severe than payment defaults—remained elevated in August. These impairments were concentrated in the retirement and assisted living sector and represent a very small fraction of the municipal market.

Survey-based indicators suggest small business owners, especially from COVID-sensitive sectors that include lodging and food services, arts, entertainment and recreation, and educational services, became more pessimistic about their financial prospects, largely because of a worsening of near-term expectations for sales and general business conditions. Small business loan originations were above pre-pandemic levels in June and July, but increased concerns about the Delta variant depressed loan demand in August.

Financing conditions in commercial real estate (CRE) improved over the intermeeting period amid increasing CRE property prices. CRE loan growth at banks strengthened and issuance of commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS) remained robust over the summer. Spreads of agency CMBS were generally at or below pre-pandemic levels. Strong investor appetite for CMBS was supported by falling delinquency rates on mortgages, al­though delinquency rates remained elevated for CMBS backed by hotel and retail properties. Financing remained limited for the hard-hit hotel sector.

In the residential mortgage market, financing conditions remained accommodative particularly for borrowers who met standard conforming loan criteria. Mortgage rates increased slightly over the intermeeting period but remained very low by historical standards. Credit availability continued to improve, especially for jumbo loans and lower-score Federal Housing Administration borrowers. Indicators of mortgage originations for home-purchases and refinancing were solid through August. The share of mortgages in forbearance declined further in July and August.

Financing conditions for consumer credit remained accommodative for most borrowers, especially those with stronger credit scores. Consumer credit and the credit card market expanded at a strong pace in June before stepping down somewhat in July. Conditions for nonprime consumers in the credit card market eased from tight levels. Auto loan growth slowed in June and July from its brisk pace in May. Conditions in the asset-backed securities market were robust over the intermeeting period.