The manager turned first to a discussion of financial market developments over the period. Domestic financial conditions were little changed, on net, and remained highly accommodative. The spread of the Delta variant of the COVID-19 virus weighed on the near-term growth outlook and median respondents to the Open Market Desk's Survey of Primary Dealers marked down projections for gross domestic product (GDP) growth and revised up projections for inflation this year. Nonetheless, expectations for the trajectory of growth beyond 2021 were little changed. Implied forward inflation compensation two to four years ahead based on Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities (TIPS) increased modestly over the intermeeting period.

Regarding the outlook for monetary policy, market participants noted policymaker communications suggesting that tapering of asset purchases could begin this year and end by mid-2022. Around half of respondents to the Desk's surveys of primary dealers and market participants viewed December as the most likely timing of the first reduction in the net pace of purchases, al­though respondents also attached significant probability to the first reduction coming in November. Median expectations for the pace of net purchases were consistent with a gradual tapering of net purchases being completed in July of next year, about one to two months earlier than in the previous surveys. Expectations for the target federal funds rate based on survey responses and interest rate futures moved up slightly since the previous meeting.

Several central banks announced reductions in the pace of their asset purchase programs or eventual plans for their balance sheets once asset purchases had been completed. These announcements were broadly in line with market participants' expectations and elicited only a modest reaction in financial markets. In Latin America and emerging Europe, some central banks recently tightened policy to address rising inflation pressures. Investors remained focused on other vulnerabilities in emerging markets, and concerns had grown recently about the possible implications of developments in China.

The manager turned next to a discussion of money markets and Federal Reserve operations. Domestic funding conditions were stable over the period. The federal funds rate edged lower amid ongoing increases in reserves, but it remained well within the target range; the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR) was steady at 5 basis points. Participation in the overnight reverse repurchase agreement (ON RRP) facility increased to an average of just over $1 trillion over the period, driven primarily by increased usage by government money market funds. Market participants were attentive over the period to negotiations on the debt limit. Yields on Treasury bills maturing in mid-October to mid-November had become modestly elevated as investors reduced exposures to securities that could be at risk for delayed payments. Market participants noted information in the public domain about measures the Federal Reserve and the Treasury could take around a debt limit event. They pointed, in particular, to the October 2013 FOMC meeting minutes, which highlighted that the Federal Reserve would use normal procedures in its operations, both as the debt limit nears and in the event of a delayed payment. Market participants also focused on a 2013 report by the Treasury Market Practices Group (TMPG), which outlined a process that could be used to delay principal payments on Treasury securities by rolling forward the operational maturity date in order to maintain the ability to transfer such securities over Fedwire®. The TMPG report noted that such a procedure would help support ongoing functioning of markets for securities with delayed payments. This would maintain their eligibility in open market operations under normal procedures. Nevertheless, market participants emphasized that, even with these procedures, a delayed payment would create severe and broad-based market disruption.

In light of increased usage of the ON RRP facility and the potential for continued downward pressure on short-term interest rates over the near term, the manager next discussed a staff proposal to increase the per-counterparty limit for the ON RRP facility to $160 billion. Staff analysis suggested that the proposed increase was likely to be sufficient to support effective policy implementation for most foreseeable circumstances.

The manager provided a brief update on the new repurchase agreement (repo) facilities that the Committee had announced following its meeting in July. The Desk had been working to onboard depository institutions as additional counterparties for the standing repo facility. In addition, a number of foreign central banks had expressed intent to establish access to the Foreign and International Monetary Authority Repo Facility.

By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Desk's domestic transactions over the intermeeting period. There were no intervention operations in foreign currencies for the System's account during the intermeeting period.