Over the intermeeting period, both the market-implied expected path of the federal funds rate and nominal Treasury yields moved up somewhat, in part reflecting FOMC communications that were perceived as more restrictive than expected amid an economic outlook that was little changed. The market-implied policy rate path shifted moderately higher, as did option-implied probability distributions of short-term interest rates. Market-implied measures of interest rate volatility remained largely unchanged, on net. Nominal Treasury yields rose, driven by increases in real yields. Short-term inflation compensation declined notably, largely reflecting technical factors related to indexation lags and the passage of time. Market-based measures of longer-term inflation compensation and survey-based measures of inflation expectations remained well anchored.

Broad equity price indexes fell slightly, on net, but were still close to all-time highs. Strong expectations of corporate profit growth and investor risk sentiment continued to suggest that investors expect resilient economic activity. The VIX—a forward-looking measure of near-term equity market volatility—increased modestly, on net, and stood slightly above its historical median. Corporate bond spreads were little changed and remained very low by historical standards, reflecting investor perceptions of a solid corporate credit outlook and strong appetite for corporate securities.

Sovereign yields for AFEs increased, mostly in line with U.S. yields, whereas measures of inflation compensation were mixed. The broad dollar index increased modestly, with the dollar appreciating most against AFE currencies. Equity indexes in South Korea and Taiwan dropped notably, driven by concerns about semiconductor company valuations; equity indexes elsewhere were little changed overall.

Financing conditions in domestic credit markets remained generally accommodative for larger businesses and municipalities but were somewhat restrictive for many small businesses and households. Borrowing costs were little changed since the June FOMC meeting.

Credit continued to be generally available to most businesses, households, and municipalities. Bank lending kept expanding, and corporate bond and equity financing were strong, partly driven by the financing of AI-related investments. Nonetheless, investor concerns continued to weigh on lending in the private credit market, and credit continued to be somewhat restrictive for small businesses. For households, home-purchase mortgage activity remained depressed. Credit continued to be available for existing credit card holders but was tight for new applicants. Issuance of municipal bonds remained strong.

Banks' responses to the July Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices indicated easier lending standards, on net, for the fourth consecutive quarter and stronger demand for credit for the fifth consecutive quarter. Special questions on the levels of bank lending standards indicated that overall standards were slightly below their historical median and had eased across loan types relative to July 2025. Lending standards had largely returned to their respective pre-pandemic levels, except for consumer loans. The levels of standards continued to be at the tighter end of the range since 2005 for all loan categories except commercial and industrial loans, for which standards were generally easier than their historical medians.

Credit performance remained solid in most markets. The 12-month trailing default rate on nonfinancial corporate bonds remained near the bottom tercile of its historical distribution, the default rate for leveraged loans decreased slightly, and defaults in the private credit market were little changed. The credit performance of loans to medium-sized and large businesses and municipalities also remained solid, and the credit performance of municipal bonds was strong. By contrast, the credit performance of small business loans and commercial mortgage-backed securities continued to be somewhat weak. Measures of credit performance of household debt were solid on balance.

The staff provided an updated assessment of the stability of the U.S. financial system and, on balance, continued to characterize the system's financial vulnerabilities as notable. The staff judged that asset valuation pressures were elevated. Equity valuations remained high despite some moderation from year-end, supported by AI enthusiasm and strong corporate profits. The equity premium—the forward earnings-to-price ratio adjusted for the level of long-term interest rates—was at a level that has only been lower in recent history during the dot-com bubble.

Vulnerabilities associated with nonfinancial business and household debt were characterized as moderate. The ability of publicly traded investment-grade firms to service their debt remained solid, but median interest coverage ratios for lower-quality business borrowers were at the lower end of their historical distribution. Household balance sheets remained strong.

Vulnerabilities associated with leverage in the financial sector were characterized as notable. Leverage at hedge funds remained near all-time highs across all strategies and was highly concentrated within the largest funds. In addition, life insurers' exposures to riskier and less liquid asset classes were at high levels, making some insurers susceptible to losses in the event of a broad deterioration in business credit quality. By contrast, dealer leverage remained low and bank regulatory capital ratios remained within the high post–Basel III range, although the fair value of some bank assets stayed well below the book value.

Vulnerabilities associated with funding risks were characterized as moderate. Overall runnable liabilities in short-term funding markets remained stable, while hedge funds' repo and prime brokerage borrowing rose to record levels.