The manager began by noting that, against a backdrop of solid economic data, developments over the intermeeting period were influenced by the conflict in the Middle East. Oil prices ended the period higher following the escalation of tensions in the Middle East. Across asset classes, inflation compensation moved little in response to higher oil prices, nominal rates rose largely on expectations of higher policy rates, equities were somewhat lower, and the dollar edged up modestly.

Near-term inflation compensation declined notably after the June FOMC meeting and moved up only marginally thereafter despite the sharp increase in oil prices. Market outreach and written responses to the Open Market Desk Survey of Market Expectations (Desk survey) indicated that this decline after the June FOMC meeting was attributable in part to investors' perceptions of the Committee's strong resolve to deliver price stability, as reflected in the June FOMC statement and press conference. Longer-term inflation compensation remained stable and consistent with the Committee's 2 percent longer-run inflation objective.

Nominal Treasury yields rose 25 to 30 basis points, driven by corresponding increases in real interest rates. Market pricing and outreach indicated that, while investors expected no action at the July FOMC meeting as a base case, the market priced in about a one-in-three chance of an increase in the target range for the federal funds rate. At longer horizons, the market was fully pricing in a 25 basis point hike by the September meeting and another one by the end of the first quarter of next year. The median respondent to the Desk survey, by contrast, expected no change in the policy rate this year or the next but expected a rate cut in early 2028.

Turning to equity and credit markets, the manager noted that the S&P 500 was down marginally over the intermeeting period. Since the start of the year, equity prices for the artificial intelligence (AI) related infrastructure sector had outperformed those for both the S&P 500 and hyperscaler firms, though appreciation of even those firms had stalled over the intermeeting period. Credit spreads for hyperscaler firms widened further relative to those for investment-grade bond issuers. In the private credit sector, recent data confirmed that redemption requests to business development companies continued to increase in the second quarter.

Reviewing international developments, the manager remarked that market-implied policy rates through the end of 2026 increased more for the U.S. than for advanced foreign economies (AFEs) over the intermeeting period. At the same time, the relatively resilient U.S. growth outlook supported continued foreign inflows into domestic assets, particularly U.S. equities. Consistent with the widening interest rate gap and heavy equity inflows, the dollar continued to appreciate.

The manager observed that money markets remained generally stable. Repurchase agreement (repo) rates again went through a brief period of softness earlier in the period and temporarily dragged the effective federal funds rate (EFFR) down 1 basis point. Repo rates recovered quickly, the EFFR returned to its earlier level, and money market rates generally ended the period little changed, on net, and close to the interest rate on reserve balances.

The manager noted that the level of reserves in the system appeared to remain within a range consistent with an ample supply. With reserve management purchases continuing, the Desk forecast was for reserves to remain within that range in coming months.

By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Desk's domestic transactions over the intermeeting period. There were no intervention operations in foreign currencies for the System's account during the intermeeting period.