The information available at the time of the meeting indicated that inflation remained elevated. Labor market conditions remained stable, and real gross domestic product (GDP) continued to expand.

Total consumer price inflation—as measured by the 12-month change in the price index for personal consumption expenditures (PCE)—was 4.1 percent in May. Core PCE price inflation, which excludes changes in consumer energy prices and many consumer food prices, was 3.4 percent. Both total and core inflation were higher than their levels from a year earlier, a development that the staff attributed to factors such as the effects of past tariff increases, higher energy and input costs stemming from the conflict in the Middle East, and the surge in demand related to the AI buildout. Core goods price inflation had moved up relative to a year earlier; the staff viewed this increase as being largely attributable to the effects of tariffs and AI-related price pressures. Core services price inflation had edged up over the past year, as an acceleration in core nonhousing services prices had offset a deceleration in prices for housing services. Based on data from the consumer and producer price indexes, the staff estimated that total PCE price inflation stepped down to 3.7 percent in June, led by a deceleration in consumer energy prices; core PCE price inflation was estimated to have edged down to 3.3 percent.

The unemployment rate was 4.2 percent in June and had changed little, on net, over the preceding two years. Nonfarm payroll employment growth slowed in June; average monthly job gains over the first half of the year, however, were well above 2025's average pace. The 12-month change in average hourly earnings was 3.5 percent in June, 0.4 percentage point lower than a year earlier.

Available indicators suggested that real GDP growth had slowed in the second quarter. However, real private domestic final purchases—which comprises PCE and private fixed investment and which often provides a better signal of underlying economic momentum than does real GDP—appeared to have picked up in the second quarter and to have been rising faster than GDP. Consumer spending had firmed, and the AI buildout continued to support business investment. Real exports and imports both expanded at a robust pace in the second quarter, with continued strength in high-tech trade. U.S. energy exports remained elevated amid disruptions to oil shipments in the Middle East. On balance, with imports growing faster than exports, net exports continued to subtract from GDP growth.

Growth abroad picked up in the second quarter, as foreign economies demonstrated resilience in the face of commodity price volatility and supply chain disruptions stemming from the conflict in the Middle East. Labor markets were generally stable, while manufacturing activity was solid, supported in part by strong global demand for high-tech goods related to the AI buildout.

Headline inflation was above targeted levels in many foreign economies, importantly reflecting increases in retail energy and food prices due to the conflict in the Middle East. Foreign central banks continued to assess the effects of the conflict on their economies, with most maintaining their policy rates over the intermeeting period.