During the intermeeting period, global financial markets were buffeted by increased concerns about the outlook for foreign growth and political developments in Italy, but these concerns subsequently eased. On net, Treasury yields were little changed despite significant intraperiod moves, and the dollar appreciated notably as a range of AFE and EME currencies and sovereign bonds came under pressure. However, broad domestic stock price indexes increased, on net, as generally strong corporate earnings reports helped support prices. Meanwhile, financing conditions for nonfinancial businesses and households remained supportive of economic activity on balance.

Over the intermeeting period, macroeconomic data releases signaling moderating growth in some foreign economies, along with downside risks stemming from political developments in Italy and several EMEs, weighed on prices of foreign risk assets. These developments, together with a still-solid economic outlook for the United States, supported an increase in the broad trade-weighted index of the foreign exchange value of the dollar.

The dollar appreciated notably against several EME currencies (primarily those of Argentina, Turkey, Mexico, and Brazil), as the increase in U.S. interest rates since late 2017, along with political developments and other issues, intensified concerns about financial vulnerabilities. EME mutual funds saw slight net outflows, and, on balance, EME sovereign spreads widened and equity prices edged lower. In the AFEs, sovereign spreads in some peripheral European countries widened and European bank shares came under pressure, as investors focused on political developments in Italy. Broad equity indexes in the euro area, with the exception of Italy, ended the period little changed, while those in Canada, the United Kingdom, and Japan edged higher. Market-based measures of expected policy rates were little changed, on balance, and flight-to-safety flows reportedly contributed to declines in German longer‑term sovereign yields.

FOMC communications over the intermeeting period--including the May FOMC statement and the May FOMC meeting minutes--elicited only minor reactions in asset markets. Quotes on federal funds futures contracts suggested that the probability of an increase in the target range for the federal funds rate occurring at the June FOMC meeting inched up further to near certainty. Levels of the federal funds rate at the end of 2019 and 2020 implied by overnight index swap (OIS) rates were little changed on net.

Longer-term nominal Treasury yields ended the period largely unchanged despite notable movements during the intermeeting period. Measures of inflation compensation derived from Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities were also little changed on net.

Broad U.S. equity price indexes increased about 5 percent, on net, since the May FOMC meeting, boosted in part by the stronger-than-expected May Employment Situation report. Stock prices also appeared to have been buoyed by first-quarter earnings reports that generally beat expectations--particularly for the technology sector, which outperformed the broader market. However, the turbulence abroad and, to a lesser degree, mounting concerns about trade policy weighed on equity prices at times. Option-implied volatility on the S&P 500 at the one-month horizon--the VIX--was down somewhat, on net, remaining just a couple of percentage points above the very low levels that prevailed before early February. Over the intermeeting period, spreads of yields on nonfinancial corporate bonds over those of comparable-maturity Treasury securities widened moderately for both investment- and speculative-grade firms. However, these spreads remained low by historical standards.

Over the intermeeting period, short-term funding markets stayed generally stable despite still-elevated spreads between rates on some private money market instruments and OIS rates of similar maturity. While some of the factors contributing to pressures in short-term funding markets had eased recently, the three-month spread between the London interbank offered rate and the OIS rate remained significantly wider than at the start of the year.

Growth of outstanding commercial and industrial loans held by banks appeared to have moderated in May after a strong reading in April. The issuance of institutional leveraged loans was strong in April and May; meanwhile, corporate bond issuance was weak, likely reflecting seasonal patterns. Gross issuance of municipal bonds in April and May was solid, as issuance continued to recover from the slow pace recorded at the start of the year.

Financing conditions for commercial real estate (CRE) remained accommodative. Even so, the growth of CRE loans held by banks ticked down in April and May. Commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS) issuance, in general, continued at a robust pace; al­though issuance softened somewhat in April, partly reflecting seasonal factors, it recovered in May. Spreads on CMBS were little changed over the intermeeting period, remaining near their post-crisis lows.

Residential mortgage financing conditions remained accommodative for most borrowers. For borrowers with low credit scores, conditions stayed tight but continued to ease. Growth in home-purchase mortgages slowed a bit and refinancing activity continued to be muted in recent months, with both developments partly reflecting the rise in mortgage rates earlier this year.

Financing conditions in consumer credit markets were little changed in the first few months of 2018, on balance, and remained largely supportive of growth in household spending. Growth in consumer credit slowed a bit in the first quarter, as seasonally adjusted credit card balances were about flat after having surged in the fourth quarter of last year. Financing conditions for consumers with subprime credit scores continued to tighten, likely contributing to a decline in auto loan extensions to such borrowers.