The manager of the System Open Market Account (SOMA) provided a summary of developments in domestic and global financial markets over the intermeeting period. Developments in emerging market economies (EMEs) and in Europe were the focus of considerable attention by financial market participants over recent weeks. Investor perceptions of increased economic and political vulnerabilities in several EMEs led to a notable depreciation in EME currencies relative to the dollar. Market participants reported that an unwinding of investor positions had been a factor amplifying these currency moves. In Europe, concerns about the political situation in Italy and its potential economic implications prompted a significant widening in risk spreads on Italian sovereign securities. The share prices of Italian banks and other banks that could be exposed to Italy declined sharply. In domestic financial markets, expectations for the path of the federal funds rate were little changed over the intermeeting period. The manager noted that the release of the minutes of the May FOMC meeting, and particularly the reference to a possible technical adjustment in the interest on excess reserves (IOER) rate relative to the top of the FOMC's target range for the federal funds rate, prompted a small reduction in federal funds futures rates.

The deputy manager followed with a discussion of money markets and open market operations. Rates on Treasury repurchase agreements (repo) had remained elevated in recent weeks, apparently responding, in part, to increased Treasury issuance over recent months. In light of the firmness in repo rates, the volume of operations conducted through the Federal Reserve's overnight reverse repurchase agreement facility remained low. Elevated repo rates may also have contributed to some upward pressure on the effective federal funds rate in recent weeks as lenders in that market shifted some of their investments to earn higher rates available in repo markets. The deputy manager also discussed the current outlook for reinvestment purchases of agency mortgage-backed securities (MBS). Based on current projections, principal payments on the Federal Reserve's holdings of agency MBS would likely be lower than the monthly cap on redemptions that will be in effect beginning in the fall of this year. Consistent with the June 2017 addendum to the Policy Normalization Principles and Plans, reinvestment purchases of agency MBS then are projected to fall to zero from that point onward. However, principal payments on agency MBS are sensitive to changes in various factors, particularly long-term interest rates. As a result, agency MBS principal payments could rise above the monthly redemption cap in some future scenarios and thus require MBS reinvestment purchases. In light of this possibility, the deputy manager described plans for the Desk to conduct small value purchases of agency MBS on a regular basis in order to maintain operational readiness.

By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Open Market Desk's domestic transactions over the intermeeting period. There were no intervention operations in foreign currencies for the System's account during the intermeeting period.