The information reviewed for the June 12-13 meeting indicated that labor market conditions continued to strengthen in recent months, and that real gross domestic product (GDP) appeared to be rising at a solid rate in the first half of the year. Consumer price inflation, as measured by the 12‑month percentage change in the price index for personal consumption expenditures (PCE), was 2 percent in April. Survey‑based measures of longer-run inflation expectations were little changed on balance.

Total nonfarm payroll employment expanded at a strong pace, on average, in April and May. The national unemployment rate edged down in both months and was 3.8 percent in May. The unemployment rates for African Americans, Asians, and Hispanics all declined, on net, from March to May; the rate for African Americans was the lowest on record but still noticeably above the rates for other groups. The overall labor force participation rate edged down in April and May but was still at about the same level as a year earlier. The share of workers employed part time for economic reasons was little changed at a level close to that from just before the previous recession. The rate of private-sector job openings rose in March and stayed at that elevated level in April; the rate of quits edged up, on net, over those two months; and initial claims for unemployment insurance benefits continued to be low through early June. Recent readings showed that increases in labor compensation stepped up over the past year. Compensation per hour in the nonfarm business sector increased 2.7 percent over the four quarters ending in the first quarter of this year (compared with 1.9 percent over the same four quarters a year earlier), and average hourly earnings for all employees increased 2.7 percent over the 12 months ending in May (compared with 2.5 percent over the same 12 months a year earlier).

Total industrial production increased at a solid pace in April, but the available indicators for May, particularly production worker hours in manufacturing, indicated that output declined in that month. Automakers' schedules suggested that assemblies of light motor vehicles would increase in the coming months, and broader indicators of manufacturing production, such as the new orders indexes from national and regional manufacturing surveys, continued to point to solid gains in factory output in the near term.

Consumer spending appeared to be increasing briskly in the second quarter after rising at only a modest pace in the first quarter. Real PCE increased at a robust pace in April after a strong gain in March. Al­though light motor vehicle sales declined in May, indicators of vehicle demand generally remained upbeat. More broadly, recent readings on key factors that influence consumer spending--including gains in employment, real disposable personal income, and households' net worth--continued to be supportive of solid real PCE growth in the near term. In addition, the lower tax withholding resulting from the tax cuts enacted late last year still appeared likely to provide some additional impetus to spending in coming months. Consumer sentiment, as measured by the University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers, remained elevated in May.

Residential investment appeared to be declining further in the second quarter after decreasing in the first quarter. Starts for new single-family homes were unchanged in April from their first-quarter average, but starts of multifamily units declined noticeably. Sales of both new and existing homes decreased in April.

Real private expenditures for business equipment and intellectual property appeared to be rising at a moderate pace in the second quarter after a somewhat faster increase in the first quarter. Nominal shipments of nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft rose in April, and forward-looking indicators of business equipment spending--such as the backlog of unfilled capital goods orders, along with upbeat readings on business sentiment from national and regional surveys--continued to point to robust gains in equipment spending in the near term. Real business expenditures for nonresidential structures appeared to be expanding at a solid pace again in the second quarter, and the number of crude oil and natural gas rigs in operation--an indicator of business spending for structures in the drilling and mining sector--increased, on net, from mid-April through early June.

Nominal federal government spending data for April and May pointed to an increase in real federal purchases in the second quarter. Real state and local government purchases also appeared to be moving up; al­though nominal construction expenditures by these governments edged down in April, their payrolls rose at a moderate pace, on net, in April and May.

Net exports made a negligible contribution to real GDP growth in the first quarter, with growth of both real exports and real imports slowing from the brisk pace of the fourth quarter of last year. After narrowing in March, the nominal trade deficit narrowed further in April, as exports continued to increase while imports declined slightly, which suggested that net exports might add modestly to real GDP growth in the second quarter.

Total U.S. consumer prices, as measured by the PCE price index, increased 2.0 percent over the 12 months ending in April. Core PCE price inflation, which excludes changes in consumer food and energy prices, was 1.8 percent over that same period. The consumer price index (CPI) rose 2.8 percent over the 12 months ending in May, while core CPI inflation was 2.2 percent. Recent readings on survey-based measures of longer-run inflation expectations--including those from the Michigan survey, the Survey of Professional Forecasters, and the Desk's Survey of Primary Dealers and Survey of Market Participants--were little changed on balance.

Incoming data suggested that foreign economic activity continued to expand at a solid pace. Real GDP growth picked up in the first quarter in several EMEs--including Mexico, China, and much of emerging Asia--al-though recent indicators pointed to some moderation in the pace of activity in most EMEs. By contrast, in the advanced foreign economies (AFEs), real GDP growth slowed in the first quarter, owing partly to temporary factors such as labor strikes in some European countries and bad weather in Japan. More recent indicators pointed to a partial rebound in AFE economic growth in the second quarter. Inflation pressures in the foreign economies generally remained subdued, even though higher oil prices put some upward pressure on headline inflation.