The manager turned first to an overview of broad market developments during the intermeeting period. Respondents to the Open Market Desk Survey of Market Expectations (Desk survey) continued to see the economy as resilient and again marked up their forecasts for real gross domestic product (GDP) growth in 2026, while their expectations for headline personal consumption expenditures (PCE) inflation and the unemployment rate were little changed. Market- and survey-based policy rate expectations were likewise little changed. Market-based measures of policy rate expectations indicated one to two 25 basis point rate cuts this year, and the median modal path of the federal funds rate, as given in the Desk survey, continued to indicate expectations of two 25 basis point rate cuts this year.

The manager turned next to Treasury market developments and market-based measures of inflation compensation. Shorter-term Treasury yields were little changed, while longer-term yields rose a few basis points on net; the Treasury curve steepened slightly as a result. Near-term inflation compensation continued to decline amid lower-than-expected consumer price index (CPI) readings, lower energy prices, and lower-than-anticipated pass-through of tariffs to customers; forward rates suggested that near-term inflation would stabilize close to current levels for the rest of the year. Model-based measures of short-term inflation expectations also declined some over the intermeeting period, with forward rates suggesting further modest declines over the course of this year. The Treasury market continued to function well amid low volatility. In light of the growing portion of Treasury securities that is financed using repos, the manager noted the importance of the stability of the repo market for the continued smooth functioning of the Treasury market.

The recent announcement that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac may increase their mortgage investment portfolios garnered substantial market attention and was followed by a notable decline in mortgage-backed securities yields relative to those on comparable-maturity Treasury yields. Still, the manager observed that the decline was unlikely to result in a material increase in mortgage refinancing because current mortgage rates are well above the weighted average rate of outstanding mortgages.

The manager moved to a discussion of equity prices. The largest technology companies continued to underperform the market, as investors remained focused on their elevated valuations and large capital expenditures. Excluding those companies, the S&P 500 was up nearly 3 percent over the intermeeting period; cyclical sectors and indexes of firms with smaller market capitalizations performed even better.

Regarding international developments, private-sector consensus forecasts continued to call for dollar depreciation this year, as many of these forecasters expected a larger reduction in policy rates in the U.S. than in other advanced-economy jurisdictions. The extent of expected depreciation had moderated quite a bit, on net, over the previous several months, however, in light of continued improvement in the expected growth of the U.S. economy relative to the expected growth of other major economies. In the days leading up to the meeting, the dollar had depreciated markedly after reports that the Desk had made requests for indicative quotes, known as "rate checks," on the dollar–yen exchange rate. The manager noted that the Desk had requested those quotes solely on behalf of the U.S. Treasury in the Federal Reserve Bank of New York's role as the fiscal agent for the U.S.

The manager went on to discuss developments in money markets. Over the intermeeting period, the effective federal funds rate remained stable at a level just below the interest rate on reserve balances, and pressures in repo rates generally moderated. While repo rates increased notably at year-end, rate pressure was less than investors had generally anticipated. Money market contacts attributed the better-than-expected outcome to a variety of factors, including an increase in available liquidity due to the start of reserve management purchases (RMPs) and a lower Treasury General Account (TGA), the recent changes to standing repo operations' design and communications, the increased adoption of centrally cleared repo, and the overall preparedness of investors for year-end tightness.

The manager noted that the changes to standing repo operations implemented in December might have made market participants more willing to participate in these operations, as suggested by increased utilization relative to the pre-December period when market rates exceeded the rate on standing repo operations. Market contacts mentioned that the removal of the aggregate limit, the clarifications that these operations are intended for monetary policy implementation purposes, and the statement by the Chair that the operations are expected to be used when "economically sensible" were particularly helpful factors.

Finally, the manager discussed the expected trajectory of key components of the Federal Reserve's balance sheet. With RMPs continuing, reserves were expected to increase until early April before dropping quickly and sharply as tax revenues flow into the TGA. At their trough, reserves were expected to be at a level comparable with what prevailed at year-end. Over most of the projection period, reserves were expected to fluctuate in a range close to $3 trillion.

By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Desk's domestic transactions over the intermeeting period. There were no intervention operations in foreign currencies for the System's account during the intermeeting period.