The market-implied expected path of the federal funds rate, nominal Treasury yields, and swap-based measures of inflation compensation were little changed, on net, over the intermeeting period. Broad equity price indexes rose modestly, on net, while credit spreads remained low by historical standards. The one-month option-implied volatility on the S&P 500 index ended the period roughly unchanged at a moderate level by historical standards.

Geopolitical developments led to some volatility in foreign financial markets over the intermeeting period, but risk appetite quickly recovered. On net, foreign equity price indexes rose and outperformed U.S. counterparts, extending last year's trend. Japanese government bond yields increased notably because of increased political uncertainty and investor concerns over fiscal prospects, but spillovers to other advanced-economy yields were modest. The dollar depreciated against most currencies. The Japanese yen appreciated late in the intermeeting period amid speculation among market participants that authorities may intervene in foreign exchange markets to support the yen.

Conditions in short-term funding markets were stable. The Federal Reserve's initiation of RMPs as well as Treasury bill paydowns contributed to a reduction in upward pressures on money market rates. The 25 basis point decrease in the target range for the federal funds rate in December quickly passed through to secured and unsecured money market rates. Year-end pressures in short-term funding markets were subdued; conditions were supported by additional liquidity resulting from RMPs and a smaller TGA, increased take-up of standing repo operations, and some dealers locking in financing ahead of year-end.

In domestic credit markets, borrowing costs of businesses, households, and municipalities remained significantly lower than the highs observed in 2023 but elevated relative to their average post–Global Financial Crisis levels. Yields on corporate bonds, leveraged loans, and commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS) all declined somewhat over the intermeeting period, as did rates on 30-year fixed-rate conforming residential mortgages and new auto loans.

Credit remained generally available to most businesses, households, and municipalities. Issuance volumes in corporate bond, private credit, and long-term municipal bond markets were strong, and bank loans continued to expand at a moderate pace. By contrast, credit appeared to remain relatively tight for small businesses and for people with low credit scores.

Responses to the January Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices (SLOOS) suggested a slight further easing in lending standards, on balance, in the fourth quarter, principally reflecting eased standards for commercial real estate and consumer loans. 3 The overall level of bank lending standards aggregated across all loan categories was estimated to be around the median level observed since 2011.

Credit performance was stable but generally weaker than average pre-pandemic performance levels. The 12-month trailing default rates for corporate bonds and leveraged loans decreased in November and December. For direct private lending borrowers, default rates remained low, but payment-in-kind continued to be used to defer interest payments for many loans. Delinquency rates on small business and CMBS loans were little changed in November and remained elevated relative to pre-pandemic levels. For households, delinquency rates for most mortgage types remained near historical lows, while those for credit card and auto loans remained above pre-pandemic levels.

The staff provided an updated assessment of the stability of the U.S. financial system and, on balance, continued to characterize the system's financial vulnerabilities as notable. The staff judged that asset valuation pressures were elevated. Price-to-earnings ratios for public equities stood at the upper end of their historical distribution, reflecting, in part, expectations of strong earnings growth for technology firms and elevated risk appetite among investors.

Vulnerabilities associated with nonfinancial business and household debt were characterized as moderate. Corporate debt grew modestly over the past few years, with growth concentrated in investment-grade public corporations. The financing of AI investment will likely entail higher debt issuance going forward, but low debt loads at most technology firms and muted aggregate debt growth in recent years suggest firms have the capacity to accommodate such growth.

Vulnerabilities associated with leverage in the financial sector were characterized as notable. Available data suggested that leverage remained high at hedge funds and life insurance companies. By contrast, bank regulatory capital ratios were high, although their market-adjusted capital ratios remained depressed and sensitive to long-term interest rates.

Vulnerabilities associated with funding risks were characterized as moderate. The amount of total short-run funding instruments and cash-management vehicles as a fraction of GDP remained in the middle of its historical range, uninsured deposits at banks were likewise within historical norms, and funding risks associated with nontraditional short-term liabilities at life insurance companies were low. The total market capitalization of stablecoins, some of which may be vulnerable to runs, grew significantly in the past two years but remained low relative to other funding instruments.