At its meeting on December 21, the Committee adopted a directive that called for maintaining conditions in reserve markets consistent with an unchanged federal funds rate of about 5-1/2 percent and that did not contain any bias relating to the direction of possible adjustments to policy during the intermeeting period. The members noted that such a directive, which suggested that they did not expect a further change in policy before the February meeting, should foster steady conditions in financial markets during the sensitive century-date-change period. The Committee also agreed, however, that the statement accompanying the announcement of its decision would note that the Committee was especially concerned about the potential for inflation pressures to increase and would want to consider at its February meeting whether policy action would be needed to contain such pressures.

Open market operations during the intermeeting period were directed toward maintaining the federal funds rate at around 5-1/2 percent. The funds rate averaged close to the Committee's target over the intermeeting interval despite very strong demands for additional currency and market liquidity through the year-end and a rapid unwinding thereafter. Against the background of the Committee's announced concern about the inflationary implications of unsustainably rapid economic growth, incoming information suggesting that aggregate demand retained considerable momentum led to upward pressure on market interest rates once the century-date-change period had passed without incident. The effects of higher interest rates apparently offset those of unexpectedly high corporate earnings, and most broad stock market indexes fell slightly on balance over the intermeeting period.

In foreign exchange markets, the trade-weighted value of the dollar was up on balance over the intermeeting interval in relation to indexes of major foreign currencies and those of other important U.S. trading partners. Reflecting market expectations of substantial Federal Reserve tightening, the dollar appreciated considerably against the yen and the euro while depreciating somewhat against the Canadian dollar.

M2 growth picked up appreciably during December and January, evidently reflecting extra demands for liquidity and safety during the century-date-change period. M3 accelerated by even more than M2 in December. Its non-M2 component ballooned as banks issued substantial volumes of large time deposits to meet very high credit demands and as institutional money market funds became recipients of some of their customers' precautionary liquid balances. From the fourth quarter of 1998 through the fourth quarter of 1999, M2 and M3 increased at rates somewhat above the Committee's annual ranges for 1999. Total domestic nonfinancial debt expanded in 1999 at a pace in the upper portion of its range.