At the conclusion of this discussion, the Committee voted to approve without change the ranges for 2000 that it had established on a tentative basis on June 30, 1999. With Mr. Meyer dissenting, the following statement of longer-run policy and growth ranges for 2000 was approved for inclusion in the domestic policy directive:

The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions that will foster price stability and promote sustainable growth in output. In furtherance of these objectives, the Committee at this meeting established ranges for growth of M2 and M3 of 1 to 5 percent and 2 to 6 percent respectively, measured from the fourth quarter of 1999 to the fourth quarter of 2000. The range for growth of total domestic nonfinancial debt was set at 3 to 7 percent for the year. The behavior of the monetary aggregates will continue to be evaluated in the light of movements in their velocities and developments in prices, the economy, and financial markets.

Votes for this action: Messrs. Greenspan, McDonough, Broaddus, Ferguson, Gramlich, Guynn, Jordan, Kelley, and Parry.

Vote against this action: Mr. Meyer.

In dissenting, Mr. Meyer noted that although the money growth ranges do not play an important role in the conduct of monetary policy today, Congress has mandated that the FOMC set and report ranges for money and credit growth. In recent years, the money ranges have been set to be consistent with price stability and normal velocity behavior. The rate of money growth consistent with price stability depends on the average growth of real GDP. Therefore, when there is a significant increase in the projected average growth rate in real GDP, money growth ranges should be adjusted upward so that they remain consistent with price stability. While considerable uncertainty remains about the average rate of growth in real GDP, there is a strong consensus that it is significantly higher today than when the target ranges were set at their current values. The failure to adjust monetary aggregate ranges makes them less useful signals of Federal Reserve intentions. As long as the Federal Reserve is required to set and report ranges for money and debt growth, it should update them as appropriate.

In the Committee's discussion of policy for the upcoming intermeeting period, all the members supported a proposal to tighten reserve conditions by a modest amount consistent with an increase in the federal funds rate of ¼ percentage point to a level of 5-3/4 percent. The Committee's decision to tighten its policy stance was intended to help bring the growth of aggregate demand into better alignment with the expansion of sustainable aggregate supply in an effort to avert rising inflationary pressures in the economy. Relatively high real interest rates would be required to accomplish this objective, given the effects of increasing productivity and profits on the demand for capital goods and, through the wealth effect, on consumption spending. Private long-term rates already had risen considerably, but whether they had reached a level that would lead to a rebalancing of demand and supply was an open question. Moreover, these rates already encompassed expectations of a tightening of monetary policy at this and several subsequent meetings. For a number of reasons, including uncertainties about the outlook for the expansion of aggregate demand in relation to that of potential supply, the economy's response to the Committee's earlier policy actions, and the recently somewhat unsettled conditions in financial markets, a majority of the members expressed a preference for a limited policy move at this time. As long as inflation and inflation expectations remained damped, these members saw little risk in a gradual approach to policy tightening and considerable advantage to preserving the possibility of calibrating those actions to the emerging situation. A few members expressed a preference for an increase of 50 basis points in the federal funds rate in order to provide greater assurance against a buildup of inflationary expectations and inflation over coming months. Other members acknowledged that the Committee might need to move more aggressively at a later meeting should imbalances continue to build and inflation and inflation expectations clearly begin to pick up.

The members agreed that the statement to be issued after this meeting should highlight their view that even after their firming today the risks remained weighted mainly in the direction of rising inflation pressures. There were few signs thus far that the rise in interest rates over recent quarters was restraining demand in line with potential supply, and the members generally agreed that further tightening actions might well be needed to ensure that financial conditions had adjusted sufficiently to rising productivity growth to forestall escalating pressures on labor costs and prices. With the cushion of unutilized labor resources having dwindled over recent years and with the willingness of global investors to continue to acquire dollar assets to finance major further increases in imports at current interest and exchange rates in question, the need to achieve the appropriate financial and economic balance had become more pressing. In the circumstances, it was important for the public to understand that the Committee saw inflation risks as persisting even after today's action. At the conclusion of this discussion, members who favored a 50 basis point increase indicated that, in light of the clear intention of the Committee to act, if necessary, in a timely manner to contain inflation, the contemplated inclusion of a statement about the risks of higher inflation in the press release for this meeting, and the likelihood that the Board of Governors would approve a 25 basis point increase in the discount rate later in the day, they could accept a 25 basis point rise in the federal funds rate.

At the conclusion of this discussion, the Committee voted to authorize and direct the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, until it was instructed otherwise, to execute transactions in the System Account in accordance with the following policy directive:

To further the Committee's long-run objectives of price stability and sustainable economic growth, the Committee in the immediate future seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with increasing the federal funds rate to an average of around 5-3/4 percent.

The vote also encompassed approval of the sentence below for inclusion in the press statement to be released shortly after the meeting:

Against the background of its long-run goals of price stability and sustainable economic growth and of the information currently available, the Committee believes the risks are weighted mainly toward conditions that may generate heightened inflation pressures in the foreseeable future.

Votes for this action: Messrs. Greenspan, McDonough, Broaddus, Ferguson, Gramlich, Guynn, Jordan, Kelley, Meyer, and Parry.

Votes against this action: None.

The meeting was recessed briefly after this vote and the members of the Board of Governors left the room to vote on pending increases in the discount rate at several Federal Reserve Banks. On the Board members' return, Chairman Greenspan announced that the Board had approved a ¼ percentage point increase in the discount rate. The Committee concluded its meeting with a review of the press release announcing the joint policy action.

The members noted with deep regret the recent death of Frank E. Morris, former president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston and a member of the Committee over the course of 20 years before his retirement at the end of 1988. Mr. Morris is remembered as a highly respected colleague and friend who made outstanding contributions to the work of the Committee, the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, and the Federal Reserve System more generally.