The information reviewed at this meeting suggested that economic activity had expanded rapidly in recent months. Consumer spending had remained very brisk, business fixed investment had continued on a strong upward trend, and housing demand was still at a relatively high level despite some slippage recently. The growth of domestic demand had been met in part through further advances in imports. Domestically, industrial production and nonfarm payrolls had continued to increase briskly. Despite very tight labor markets, labor costs had been climbing more slowly than in 1998. Consumer price inflation had stayed moderate over the past few months, despite a recent resurgence in energy prices.

Labor demand remained robust through year-end, as nonfarm payroll employment posted a further large increase in December. Job growth in the services industry was brisk, construction hiring rose somewhat further against a backdrop of good weather and project backlogs, and manufacturing employment was essentially unchanged. The civilian unemployment rate held at 4.1 percent in December, its low for the year, and initial claims for unemployment insurance persisted at a very low level through late January.

Industrial production recorded a sharp advance in the fourth quarter. Manufacturing and mining output rose briskly, but utilities output was held down by lackluster demand during a period of unseasonably warm weather in several parts of the country. Output gains in manufacturing were widespread and the factory operating rate rose further, though capacity utilization was still a little below its long-term average.

Consumer spending apparently was very robust in the fourth quarter. Total nominal retail sales rose sharply further in December, with outlets for durable and nondurable goods recording substantial gains in sales. Spending related to Y2K concerns appeared to have been relatively limited. Outlays for services in October and November (latest data) were strong, even though spending for heating was down in response to the unseasonably warm weather.

Housing activity was still at a relatively high level at year-end, buoyed by continuing strong gains in jobs and incomes despite the rise that had occurred in mortgage interest rates. Total private housing starts rebounded sharply in December from a decline in November, although part of the December pickup might have been associated with favorable weather patterns. Sales of new homes fell in November (latest data), reversing much of the sizable October rise, but average sales for the two-month period were only slightly below their strong rate of the first half of the year. Sales of existing homes were down in December, but they also were only a little below their elevated first-half pace.

The available information suggested that growth of business spending for durable equipment slowed abruptly in the fourth quarter and that investment in nonresidential structures fell further. At least some of the deceleration in spending for capital equipment reflected a hesitancy to spend on computers and other high-tech equipment just in advance of the century rollover. The weakness in the nonresidential sector was evidenced by further declines in construction outlays and new building contracts in October and November. Office construction appeared to be leveling off in response to the higher cost of financing and to perceptions that the office space currently coming on line would be sufficient to meet demand.

The book value of manufacturing and trade inventories surged in November after having climbed moderately on balance earlier in the year. Even though the rise might have been related to concerns about supply disruptions around year-end, inventory-sales ratios generally declined a little in association with very strong increases in sales, and the ratios were at or near the bottom of their ranges for the previous twelve months.

The U.S. trade deficit in goods and services widened significantly over the October-November period from its average for the third quarter. The value of exports rose appreciably over the two months, largely reflecting growth in industrial supplies and service receipts, but the value of imports increased noticeably more, with some of the rise reflecting increases in import prices. The available information suggested that economic expansion remained robust in most foreign industrial nations. In Japan, however, economic activity was sluggish, with a seemingly small rise in the fourth quarter following a third-quarter decline. Economic activity in the developing countries apparently continued to pick up in recent months, although the pace of recovery varied widely. Economic growth appeared to have been brisk in Mexico, Korea, China, Hong Kong, and Taiwan but was mixed among the ASEAN countries and slower in Brazil.

Price inflation had remained moderate in recent months. Consumer price inflation was subdued in December in spite of a sizable increase in energy prices; however, for the year as a whole, sharp increases in energy prices noticeably boosted overall consumer inflation. Excluding the volatile energy component, consumer price inflation slowed somewhat in 1999. By contrast, the subdued rise in the core PCE chain price index in 1999 was essentially the same as in 1998. At the producer level, prices of finished goods other than food and energy changed little in December and registered a considerably reduced increase in 1999. At earlier stages of processing, however, core producer prices recorded somewhat larger advances than those for finished goods in December and for the year. With regard to labor costs, average hourly earnings rose by a larger amount in December than in November, but the increase in this measure in 1999 was about the same as for 1998.