In the Committee's review of current and prospective economic developments, members commented that the economy still seemed to be growing very vigorously as it entered the new year, while core inflation remained subdued. The members were concerned, however, that recent trends in economic activity, if they continued, might undermine the economy's remarkable performance. The economy's potential to produce goods and services had been accelerating over time, but the demand for output had been growing even more strongly. If this imbalance continued, inflationary pressures were likely to build that would interfere with the economy's performance and could lead to a disruptive adjustment in economic activity. Accelerating productivity, although adding to the growth of the economy's potential output, also had induced expectations of rapidly accelerating business earnings that in turn had generated sharp increases in stock market wealth and lifted the growth of purchasing power and spending above that in incomes. Relatively high real interest rates that reflected the increased productivity and damped the rise in asset values would be needed to help restore balance. In that regard, members questioned whether rates would be high enough without policy tightening to bring the growth of demand in line with that of supply and contain pressures in labor markets. In the view of some members, taut labor markets together with a turnaround in some of the factors that had been temporarily damping inflation, such as oil and import prices, already lent an upward bias to the inflation outlook, and all agreed that a significant further tightening of labor resource utilization would appreciably raise the risk of deterioration in the underlying inflation picture over time.

In keeping with the practice at meetings preceding the Federal Reserve's semiannual report to Congress on the economy and monetary policy and the Chairman's associated testimony, the members of the Committee and the Federal Reserve Bank presidents not currently serving as members had prepared individual projections of the growth in nominal and real GDP, the rate of unemployment, and the rate of inflation for the year 2000. The forecasts of the growth of nominal GDP were concentrated in a range of 5-1/4 to 5-1/2 percent, and for the rate of expansion in real GDP they had a central tendency of 3-1/2 to 3-3/4 percent. Growth at these rates was expected to hold the civilian unemployment rate in a range of 4 to 4-1/4 percent in the fourth quarter of 2000. The central tendency of the projections of inflation for 2000-as measured by the chain price index for personal consumption expenditures-encompassed a range of 1-3/4 to 2 percent, on the low side of the 2 percent rise in this index experienced in 1999 when energy prices had surged.

Mirroring developments in the overall economy, reports of economic conditions in the individual Federal Reserve districts continued to display broad-based strength, apart from softness in construction activity in some areas and weakness in agriculture. Retail sales appeared to have strengthened further during the opening weeks of the new year after a surge during the holiday season. Motor vehicle sales in particular had continued to hold up at a remarkably high level. Consumption was being supported by robust growth in jobs and incomes, very high levels of consumer confidence, and the lagged wealth effects from earlier advances in stock market prices. Even so, growth in consumer spending was thought likely to moderate over time to a pace more in line with the expansion in consumer incomes, unless the stock market posted large further increases from current levels. As the experience of recent years had amply demonstrated, however, the future course of stock market prices was highly uncertain, and equity markets had shown a remarkable resilience to higher interest rates as earning prospects continued to be marked up in association with the acceleration in productivity.

Opportunities to enhance profits by using new technology were likely to lead to robust further growth in business fixed investment, boosted mainly by spending for equipment and software over the year ahead. While the huge amount of capital deepening already accomplished in recent years and the projected deceleration in aggregate demand were negative factors in the outlook for business capital spending, they were likely to be overridden by persisting declines in the prices of high-tech equipment and the rising importance of replacement demand that was associated with relatively short-lived investments in high-tech equipment and computer software that had tended to characterize the buildup in business equipment in recent years. With regard to other types of investment, spending on nonresidential business structures appeared to be softening in many areas and would tend to hold down the growth in overall business expenditures for capital. However, spending by state and local governments on roadbuilding and other projects appeared to be on a robust uptrend.

Housing construction was expected to remain at a relatively elevated level, albeit below recent peaks, as a consequence of moderating demand stemming from higher mortgage interest rates and indications of overbuilding in some areas. Members also noted, however, that building activity in some parts of the country was still being held back by shortages of skilled construction workers and scarcities of some building supplies. The resulting backlogs along with low inventories of houses in some areas were factors that should limit the expected decline in residential construction this year. Moreover, many homebuyers were shifting from fixed-rate long-term mortgages to currently lower-cost adjustable rate mortgages. More fundamentally, however, the income and wealth effects that were boosting household expenditures generally should help to sustain a perhaps somewhat diminished but still high level of homebuilding activity for a while, despite higher mortgage financing costs.

Rapid increases in U.S. exports in conjunction with the strengthening of foreign economies were likely to add to demands on domestic producers. Consistent with this outlook, several members cited anecdotal reports of improving foreign markets, notably in East Asian countries. At the same time, despite some expected deceleration in imports as domestic demand moderated, the nation's trade deficit was projected to increase somewhat further over the year ahead. There was a risk that, as global portfolios came to be increasingly weighted toward dollar assets, expected returns on those assets would need to rise to attract world savings, with much of the adjustment potentially occurring through a decline in the exchange rate of the dollar that would add to pressures on U.S. prices.

Concerning the outlook for inflation, the members continued to see the risks as primarily tilted toward rising inflationary pressures, though they anticipated that further gains in productivity would hold down increases in unit labor costs and prices, at least over the nearer term. A key issue was whether growth in aggregate demand would moderate sufficiently to at least avoid greater pressures on what were already very tight labor markets. In this regard, several cited recent statistical and anecdotal evidence of larger increases in labor compensation, although unit labor costs did not appear to be trending higher at this point. However, some nonlabor input prices already were rising faster. The prospects for energy prices were very difficult to predict, but even if such prices were to stabilize, the passthrough of the large earlier increases into inflation and wage expectations, as well as into the prices of products that were heavily energy dependent, was likely to exert some upward pressure on prices throughout the economy.

On the positive side for the near-term inflation outlook, there was no evidence that the acceleration in productivity was coming to an end. Members commented in this regard that business firms across the country were continuing to improve the efficiency of their operations in a variety of ways in order to hold down costs. These efforts included persistingly large investments in new equipment, rationalization of business organizations, and training or retraining existing workers for more demanding or new tasks. Members also noted that longer-run inflation expectations generally did not appear to be worsening, though there had been a slight widening of the spread between nominal and inflation-indexed Treasury bond yields. While there seemed to be an increasing number of exceptions, business contacts continued to report that raising their prices was very difficult to carry out successfully and often impossible. On balance, the outlook for inflation remained subject to a marked degree of uncertainty. Given current levels of resource use and the strength of the economic expansion relative to the growth of the economy's long-run potential, however, the members expected that inflation pressures would gather some momentum over time unless financial conditions became tighter.

In keeping with the requirements of the Full Employment and Balanced Growth Act of 1978 (the Humphrey-Hawkins Act), the Committee reviewed at this meeting the ranges for growth of the monetary and debt ranges that it had established on a tentative basis in June 1999. The tentative ranges approved in June for the period from the fourth quarter of 1999 to the fourth quarter of 2000 included growth of 1 to 5 percent for M2, 2 to 6 percent for M3, and 3 to 7 percent for total domestic nonfinancial debt.

All but one of the members favored the adoption of the ranges that had been selected on a tentative basis at the meeting in June. They noted that for some years the ranges for monetary growth had been chosen to encompass rates of increase that would be expected under conditions of price stability, assuming historical velocity relationships. This approach had been adopted partly as a result of the substantial unreliability of the linkage between the growth of the broad monetary aggregates and economic performance. Since the current benchmark ranges had first been adopted in the mid-1990s, however, structural productivity growth had increased substantially, raising the expected rate of growth of money at price stability, other things equal. One member supported a proposal to adjust the monetary growth ranges upward by at least enough to reflect this development. However, other members emphasized the uncertainties about the dimensions of this new trend in productivity growth, the measured rate of increase in prices that would be consistent with reasonable price stability, and the long-run behavior of velocity. They felt that raising the benchmark ranges risked misleading the public about the Committee's confidence in the implied values for these variables going forward, about the Committee's determination to pursue its fundamental objectives of price stability and sustainable economic expansion, and about the very low weight most Committee members continued to place on the monetary aggregates in policy deliberations owing to the uncertainties surrounding them.