Over the intermeeting period, nominal Treasury yields declined, and the expected market-implied path for the federal funds rate through 2024 shifted downward, as market participants viewed monetary policy communications, on balance, as pointing to notably less restrictive policy than expected. Indicators of broad financial conditions eased over the period, but the staff's Financial Conditions Impulse on Growth index remained restrictive. Similarly, financing conditions for households and businesses continued to be moderately restrictive, as borrowing costs remained elevated.

The market-implied path for the federal funds rate through 2024 decreased over the intermeeting period. A straight read of federal funds futures rates suggested that market participants were placing higher odds on significant policy easing in 2024 than they did just before the December FOMC meeting. Beyond 2024, the policy rate path implied by overnight index swap quotes declined. Consistent with the decline in the implied policy path, short- and intermediate-term Treasury yields also declined notably. Real yields declined more than nominal yields, implying somewhat higher measures of inflation compensation. Market-based measures of interest rate uncertainty remained highly elevated by historical standards.

Broad stock price indexes increased, and spreads on investment- and speculative-grade bonds narrowed modestly over the intermeeting period. The one-month option-implied volatility on the S&P 500 increased somewhat over the period but remained low by historical standards.

Movements in foreign markets over the intermeeting period were modest, on net, with most foreign asset prices and the exchange value of the dollar little changed. Market participants generally considered current levels of most AFE policy rates to be at the peaks of their respective tightening cycles. Declines in market-based measures of U.S. policy expectations contributed to a moderate step-down in short-term yields in most AFEs, while longer-term foreign yields were little changed. Major AFE equity indexes increased slightly.

Conditions in short-term funding markets remained stable over the intermeeting period, with typical dynamics observed surrounding year-end. Usage of the ON RRP facility continued to decline over the period, primarily reflecting money market funds reallocating their assets to Treasury bills and private-market repurchase agreements, which offered slightly more attractive market rates relative to the ON RRP rate. Banks' total deposit levels were roughly unchanged in the fourth quarter of last year, as outflows of core deposits were about offset by inflows of large time deposits.

In domestic credit markets, borrowing costs for most businesses, households, and municipalities decreased moderately over the intermeeting period but remained elevated. Rates on loans to households declined over the intermeeting period but remained relatively high, while interest rates on existing credit card accounts were little changed. Interest rates on commercial and industrial (C&I) loans and small business loans increased over the intermeeting period. Yields declined on a broad array of fixed-income securities, including investment- and speculative-grade corporate bonds, residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS), and municipal bonds. The declines were largely driven by decreases in Treasury yields and, to some extent, by narrower spreads.

Credit continued to be generally available to businesses, households, and municipalities. However, credit availability for smaller firms continued to tighten. Total core loans at banks increased slightly in the fourth quarter. Financing in capital markets continued to be available, al­though issuance in most markets remained at moderate levels.

In the January Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices (SLOOS), banks reported tightening standards and terms on C&I loans to firms of all sizes over the fourth quarter. Regarding commercial real estate (CRE), banks reported tightening standards across all loan categories in the fourth quarter. Banks reported that they expected to keep lending standards unchanged for C&I loans and to tighten standards for CRE loans during 2024.

Credit in the residential mortgage market remained easily available for high-credit-score borrowers who met standard conforming loan criteria, and consumer credit remained available for most borrowers. Growth in credit card balances was strong in November, though SLOOS respondents indicated that standards for credit cards tightened in the fourth quarter and were expected to tighten further over 2024. Auto loan balances grew modestly in November. A modest share of banks reported in the SLOOS that they tightened standards on auto loans in the fourth quarter and expected to tighten them further over 2024.

The credit quality of businesses and households deteriorated slightly but remained broadly solid, as delinquency rates in most sectors were relatively low. Delinquency rates on conventional mortgages remained low, while delinquency rates on credit cards and auto loans rose in the third quarter to levels notably above those just before the pandemic. The credit quality of nonfinancial firms borrowing in the corporate bond and leveraged loan markets remained sound overall. Aggregate delinquency rates on CMBS backed by office properties continued to be elevated in November. In the January SLOOS, banks reported that credit quality was expected to deteriorate somewhat across loan categories over 2024.

The staff provided an update on its assessment of the stability of the U.S. financial system and, on balance, characterized the system's financial vulnerabilities as notable. The staff judged that asset valuation pressures remained notable, as valuations across a range of markets appeared high relative to fundamentals. House prices increased to the upper end of their historical range, relative to rents and Treasury yields, though underwriting standards remained restrictive. CRE prices continued to decline, especially in the multifamily and office sectors, and low levels of transactions in the office sector likely indicated that prices had not yet fully reflected the sector's weaker fundamentals. Vulnerabilities associated with business and household debt were characterized as moderate. Nonfinancial business debt growth declined, and the ability of firms to service their debt remained high relative to history.

Leverage in the financial sector was characterized as notable. In the banking sector, regulatory risk-based capital ratios continued to increase and indicated ample loss-bearing capacity in the banking system. The fair value of banks' longer-term fixed-rate assets, including loans, increased in the fourth quarter as longer-term interest rates decreased, though banks remained vulnerable to significant increases in longer-term interest rates. Insurers had been increasing their investments in risky corporate debt. Funding risks were also characterized as notable. Uninsured deposits declined in the aggregate but remained high for some banks. Assets in prime money market mutual funds and other cash management vehicles continued to increase.