The manager turned first to a review of developments in financial markets over the intermeeting period. Financial conditions eased modestly but remained about as tight as they were last summer and much tighter than when the hiking cycle began. Over the intermeeting period, declines in nominal Treasury yields were concentrated at the front end of the yield curve. Staff models suggested that the declines in shorter-term yields were mostly attributable to a lower expected policy rate path and were concentrated in expected real rates, while expected inflation was little changed. Pricing of inflation derivatives continued to suggest a near-term path of inflation consistent with a return to 2 percent later this year. Broad equity prices reached new highs over the intermeeting period, but they were driven mostly by the strong gains of large-capitalization technology companies; broader measures of equity valuations were more subdued. Still, equities appeared priced for continued economic resilience.

The manager turned next to expectations for monetary policy. Market participants broadly viewed recent inflation data and the December Summary of Economic Projections (SEP) as increasing the odds that rate cuts might start sooner than previously thought. The modal path of the federal funds rate from the Open Market Desk's Survey of Primary Dealers and Survey of Market Participants was little changed from December but showed an increased likelihood of earlier rate cuts. The modal path implied by options prices declined some over the intermeeting period. Both modal paths were closer to the December median SEP projection than the average path for the policy rate implied by futures prices, which had declined more substantially over the period. The futures-based path likely reflected the effect of investors' perceived probability of more substantial rate cuts rather than their baseline expectations.

Communications over the period heightened market attention around a potential slowing of balance sheet runoff. Most Desk survey respondents expected a slowing of the pace to start by July, al­though there was considerable uncertainty about the exact start date. The average expected timing for the end of runoff shifted slightly earlier, and the portfolio size at the end of runoff was slightly higher than in the December surveys.

Regarding developments in money markets and Desk operations, the effective federal funds rate was stable over the intermeeting period. While the Secured Overnight Financing Rate experienced temporary and modest upward pressure over the past few month-ends, including the year-end, such a pattern was common before the pandemic. The usage of the overnight reverse repurchase agreement (ON RRP) facility continued to fall over the period, with balances below $600 billion in late January. Since June 2023, when the debt ceiling was suspended, usage of the ON RRP facility had declined at a much faster pace than the Federal Reserve securities portfolio, and reserve balances had increased some.

As part of its ongoing market surveillance, the staff continued to monitor a wide range of money market indicators; those gauges suggested that the supply of reserves remained abundant. The staff also noted that once the ON RRP facility is either depleted or stabilized at a low level, reserves will decline at a pace comparable with the runoff of the Federal Reserve's securities portfolio, all else equal.

By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Desk's domestic transactions over the intermeeting period. There were no intervention operations in foreign currencies for the System's account during the intermeeting period.