The data available at the time of the January 30–31 meeting indicated that growth in U.S. real gross domestic product (GDP) was solid in the fourth quarter of 2023 but had stepped down from the third quarter's strong pace. Labor market conditions continued to be tight but showed further signs of easing. Consumer price inflation had declined markedly over the course of the year, though it remained above 2 percent.

Labor demand and supply continued to gradually move into better alignment. The average monthly pace of nonfarm payroll employment gains in the fourth quarter was slower than in the third quarter. The unemployment rate remained at 3.7 percent in December, the same as its third-quarter average. However, the labor force participation rate moved down, as did the employment-to-population ratio. The African American unemployment rate declined, and the rate for Hispanics rose; both rates were higher than those for Asians and for whites. The private-sector job openings rate was little changed in November and December, and the quits rate edged down; both rates were below their levels at the start of 2023. Easing labor market imbalances were also apparent in the wage data, with the December 12-month changes in the employment cost index and in average hourly earnings for all employees each below their year-earlier levels.

Consumer price inflation continued to slow. The price index for total personal consumption expenditures (PCE) increased 2.6 percent over the 12 months ending in December, while core PCE price inflation—which excludes changes in energy prices and many consumer food prices—was 2.9 percent over the same period. Both total and core PCE price inflation were well below their year-earlier levels. The trimmed mean measure of 12-month PCE price inflation constructed by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas was 3.3 percent in December, also lower than its level a year earlier. Survey measures of consumers' short-run inflation expectations moved lower in December, while survey measures of medium- to longer-term inflation expectations were broadly in line with the levels seen in the decade before the pandemic.

According to the advance estimate, real GDP rose at a solid pace in the fourth quarter. Private domestic final purchases—which comprises PCE and private fixed investment and which often provides a better signal than GDP of underlying economic momentum—also rose solidly, though at a slower rate.

Real exports grew robustly in the fourth quarter of 2023, driven in part by a jump in exports of industrial supplies, which had declined markedly earlier last year. By contrast, real imports grew at a tepid pace, as gains in imports of capital goods and services were partially offset by declines in imports of consumer goods and autos. All told, net exports contributed about 1/2 percentage point to U.S. GDP growth in the fourth quarter after making roughly neutral contributions in the preceding two quarters.

Foreign economic growth remained subdued in the fourth quarter. In the advanced foreign economies (AFEs), a significant tightening of monetary policy over the past two years, the erosion of real household incomes from high inflation rates, and the repercussions of last year's energy shock in Europe continued to weigh on economic activity. In China, a property-sector slump and depressed consumer confidence continued to weigh on domestic demand, with the government rolling out a series of policy measures to support growth. Economic activity in Asia excluding China firmed, supported in part by rebounding global demand for high-tech products.

Foreign headline inflation continued to fall. However, the pace of decline had varied across countries as well as sectors, with a moderation in goods prices generally having outpaced that in services prices. Most major foreign central banks kept their policy rates unchanged over the intermeeting period and emphasized the need to maintain a stance of policy that is sufficiently restrictive to ensure that inflation falls back to their targets.