The information reviewed at the meeting suggested that economic activity continued to decelerate in recent months. Consumer and business spending held up well, and payroll employment continued to rise moderately in July and August. However, a contraction in homebuilding was damping the economic expansion. Core consumer price inflation eased somewhat but nonetheless remained higher than it was in 2005. Total consumer price inflation moderated in August, reflecting a substantial slowing of the increase in energy prices.

Nonfarm payrolls rose in August at a pace similar to that recorded over the previous four months. Employment gains were widespread in the service sector, and the construction industry also added jobs, particularly in nonresidential building. However, employment in retail trade and manufacturing fell again in August. Average hours of production or nonsupervisory workers edged lower. The unemployment rate ticked back down to 4.7 percent in August, but it remained within the narrow band that prevailed since the beginning of the year.

Industrial production rose in July but edged down in August. Manufacturing output was unchanged in August, as a small increase in the production of motor vehicles and parts was offset by a slight net decline in other sectors. Output of construction supplies, for example, dropped a little. In the high-technology sector, the production of computers rose tepidly through the summer, while output of communications equipment turned down in August after increasing markedly during the first half of the year. Semiconductor production remained sluggish through August.

Consumer spending appeared to be rising at a moderate pace in recent months. Spending on cars and light trucks increased somewhat in July after a lackluster pace in the second quarter but apparently weakened in August. Consumer spending on goods excluding motor vehicles increased modestly during the four months ending in July. Despite the sharp net increase in energy prices, real disposable income rose further, with solid gains in June and July. Increases in household wealth earlier in the year continued to boost consumer spending. However, consumer borrowing costs had risen since the beginning of the year with the increase in short-term interest rates. Recent readings on consumer sentiment were mixed. The personal saving rate fell further in July.

Residential construction activity continued to contract in recent months. Single-family starts fell further in July and August to a level well below the peak in the third quarter of 2005. Construction in the multifamily sector also fell back. Sales of both new and existing single-family homes fell in July and were significantly below the peaks of last summer. A range of indicators suggested that housing market activity was likely to slow further in the near term. Pending home sales dropped noticeably in July, and mortgage rates had increased since the beginning of the year. Available measures suggested that prices of existing homes increased through the second quarter at a much lower rate than the one observed during the same period last year.

After strong increases in the first half of 2006, real spending on equipment and software remained robust into the summer against a backdrop of rising business output, plentiful corporate cash reserves, positive sentiment among executives, and falling relative prices for high-tech equipment. Orders and shipments of communications equipment leveled off in recent months after climbing earlier this year. Real computer spending remained sluggish in July. Business purchases of light vehicles picked up in August after a weak performance in July, and sales of medium and heavy trucks remained brisk. Available data indicated that aircraft purchases remained flat. Real spending on equipment outside the high-tech and transportation sectors appeared to be increasing moderately in the current quarter.

Book-value data for the manufacturing and trade sectors suggested that inventory accumulation slowed only modestly in July from a brisk pace in the second quarter. Outside the motor vehicle sector, inventories appeared to be well aligned with demand, and surveys indicated that firms continued to be generally comfortable with their level of inventories.

Both imports and exports increased in the second quarter, but imports increased and exports decreased in July, widening the U.S. trade deficit. The growth of imports was heavily concentrated in oil, reflecting higher petroleum prices, and in non-oil industrial supplies and capital goods. Imports of services fell slightly. Exports of capital goods and industrial supplies declined after considerable gains in June, but exports of telecommunications equipment and automotive products were strong. Exports of services were unchanged in July.

Economic activity in the advanced foreign economies decelerated in the second quarter but remained strong. A fall in net exports held back expansion in Japan and Canada, while strong domestic demand boosted growth in the United Kingdom and the euro area. Incoming data suggested that overall GDP growth in these countries for the current quarter was dropping a bit from the second-quarter pace. Recent economic indicators from the emerging-market economies generally pointed to robust, but moderating, growth.

The overall price index for personal consumption expenditures rose relatively steeply in July and was estimated to have increased further in August, bringing the advance over the twelve-month period above the year-earlier rise. After July, though, crude oil and gasoline prices dropped back significantly, and with inventories of natural gas remaining near seasonal highs, natural gas prices fell from their spike earlier this summer. Core consumer prices increased at a somewhat more subdued pace over July and August, but despite the recent moderation, the twelve-month change in core prices remained above the increase over the comparable period twelve months earlier. The producer price index for core intermediate materials rose significantly in July and August. Substantial upward revisions to wages and salaries boosted compensation per hour in the first quarter. The increase likely owed in part to the exercise of stock options and cash bonuses; other data that did not include such forms of compensation pointed to more moderate increases. Hourly compensation rose further in the second quarter and recorded an increase of about 7-3/4 percent from four quarters earlier. After more favorable readings in June and July, survey measures of households' inflation expectations turned back up in August, but preliminary September readings suggested a decline.

At its August meeting, the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) decided to maintain its target for the federal funds rate at 5-1/4 percent. The Committee's accompanying statement indicated that economic growth had moderated from its quite strong pace earlier in the year, partly reflecting a gradual cooling of the housing market and the lagged effects of increases in interest rates and energy prices. Readings on core inflation had been elevated in recent months, and the high levels of resource utilization and of the prices of energy and other commodities had the potential to sustain inflation pressures. However, inflation pressures seemed likely to moderate over time, reflecting contained inflation expectations and the cumulative effects of monetary policy actions, as well as reduced impetus from higher energy and materials costs. Nonetheless, the Committee judged that some inflation risks remained. The extent and timing of any additional firming that may be needed to address these risks would depend on the evolution of the outlook for both inflation and economic growth, as implied by incoming information.