In their discussion of the economic situation and outlook, meeting participants noted that the pace of the expansion appeared to be continuing to moderate in the third quarter. In particular, activity in the housing market seemed to be cooling considerably, which would contribute to relatively subdued growth over the balance of the year. Growth was likely to strengthen next year as the housing correction abated, with activity also encouraged by the recent decline in energy prices and still-supportive financial conditions. In the view of many participants, economic expansion would probably track close to the rate of growth of the economy's potential next year and in 2008. Many participants also noted that core inflation had been running at an undesirably high rate. Although most participants expected core inflation to decline gradually, substantial uncertainty attended this outlook.

In their discussion of major sectors of the economy, meeting participants focused especially on developments in the housing market. Although the situation varied somewhat across the nation, housing activity was continuing to contract in most regions. Home sales had slowed considerably, and anecdotal reports suggested that more buyers were canceling contracts for purchases. Participants noted that inventories of unsold homes had climbed sharply in many areas and that builders were taking a number of measures to reduce inventories. Both permits for new construction and housing starts had declined significantly. Available measures of home prices suggested that appreciation had slowed considerably but prices in most areas were not falling, although some sellers were reported to be providing various inducements to potential purchasers that reduced effective prices.

Thus far, the drop in housing market activity appeared not to have spilled over significantly to other sectors of the economy. Indeed, consumer expenditures appeared to have been expanding moderately over the previous few months, buoyed by increases in employment, personal income, and household wealth. Contacts in some Districts reported that retail sales had picked up a little most recently. Meeting participants noted that consumer spending going forward would be supported by the higher levels of personal income indicated by recent revisions to the national income and product accounts, by further gains in employment, and by the decline in consumer energy prices over recent months. However, considerable uncertainty was expressed regarding the ultimate extent of the downturn in the housing sector and the degree to which the slowing in housing activity and the deceleration in home prices would affect consumption and other expenditures going forward.

Business investment spending generally was seen as expanding at a reasonably good pace. Meeting participants noted broad strength in manufacturing of capital goods. Nonresidential construction activity continued to strengthen, and in the process was absorbing some of the resources that were no longer employed in homebuilding. Although some survey evidence suggested that some firms were trimming capital spending plans, participants reported that their business contacts generally were quite positive about the economic outlook and the strength of demand for their products. In this environment, investment spending would likely continue to be supported by expansion of overall output, strong balance sheets and profits, and the ready availability of funding from financial markets and institutions.

Participants noted that the financial condition of federal and state governments continued to improve. Inflows of tax revenues remained strong, consistent with expanding personal incomes, sales, and business profits.

Economic activity abroad appeared to be slowing a little from the unusually rapid rate of the first half of the year, but still expanding at a reasonably good pace overall. Foreign economic growth was expected to continue, albeit perhaps at a somewhat slower pace than expected by some outside forecasters, contributing to increases in U.S. exports.

Participants took note of the jump in labor compensation in the first half of the year, but commented that the increase likely reflected in part the exercise of stock options. Nonetheless, some participants viewed the recent increase in overall compensation as pointing to upside risks to inflation. Participants reported steady gains in employment in various regions, roughly in line with expansion of the labor force. Many business contacts continued to experience shortages of labor and accelerating wages, particularly for certain types of professionals and skilled workers and, in some areas, unskilled workers.

One participant highlighted that, in the staff forecast, labor force growth would begin to slow over the next few years as more members of the baby-boom generation retired. Even if resource utilization rates were unchanged, slower growth of the labor force would mean that increases in employment would be significantly lower, on average, than those registered in recent years. In that case, the slower growth of the labor force and employment implied that the expansion of potential GDP could be somewhat lower than it had been earlier this decade. Some participants commented, however, that they viewed potential output growth, as well as expansion of actual output, as likely to remain solid over the next several years.

Many meeting participants emphasized that they continued to be quite concerned about the outlook for inflation. Recent rates of core inflation, if they persisted, were seen as higher than consistent with price stability, and participants underscored the importance of ensuring a moderation in inflation. To be sure, very recent data on inflation suggested some improvement from the situation in the late spring, partly reflecting slower increases in owners' equivalent rent. Also, the considerably lower level of energy prices of recent weeks, if sustained, would help reduce overall inflation and damp increases in core prices. Moreover, businesses would meet more resistance to attempts to pass through cost increases in the less robust economic circumstances that were likely to prevail at least for a time. However, energy prices remained quite sensitive to a wide range of forces, including geopolitical developments, and might well rebound. To date, the available evidence indicated that inflation expectations remained contained--indeed, expectations of price increases for the next few years had fallen some as energy prices declined. Nonetheless, several participants worried that inflation expectations could rise and the Federal Reserve's willingness to carry through on its intention to seek price stability could be called into question if cost and price pressures mounted or even if there was no moderation in core inflation. Looking forward, most participants thought that the most likely outcome was a reduction in inflation pressures, but the anticipated decline was only gradual and the uncertainties around that forecast were skewed toward higher rather than lower inflation rates.