In the Committee's discussion of monetary policy for the intermeeting period, nearly all members favored keeping the target federal funds rate at 5-1/4 percent at this meeting. Members generally expected economic activity to expand at a pace below the rate of growth of potential output in the near term before strengthening some over time. Moreover, given the uncertainties in forecasting, significantly more sluggish performance than anticipated could not be entirely ruled out. Although the uncertainties were substantial, core inflation seemed most likely to ebb gradually from its elevated level, in part owing to the waning effects of past increases in energy prices. The anticipated expansion of economic activity at a pace slightly below the rate of growth of the economy's potential would likely also play a role by easing pressures on resources. Members noted that certain developments of late--appreciable declines in energy prices, some softer indicators of economic activity, and slightly lower readings on core inflation--pointed to a modestly better inflation outlook and hence made the policy decision today somewhat less difficult than it was in August, when it was seen as a particularly close call.

In view of the most recent information on the economy, members agreed that it was appropriate for the post-meeting statement to characterize economic growth as apparently continuing to moderate. However, in view of still-high energy and other commodity prices and elevated rates of resource utilization as well as recent indications of a possible acceleration in labor costs, members continued to see a substantial risk that inflation would not decline as anticipated by the Committee. Consequently, the Committee agreed that the statement should again cite such risks to inflation and explicitly reference the possibility of additional policy firming.

At the conclusion of the discussion, the Committee voted to authorize and direct the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, until it was instructed otherwise, to execute transactions in the System Account in accordance with the following domestic policy directive:

"The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions that will foster price stability and promote sustainable growth in output. To further its long-run objectives, the Committee in the immediate future seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with maintaining the federal funds rate at an average of around 5-1/4 percent."
The vote encompassed approval of the text below for inclusion in the statement to be released at 2:15 p.m.:

"Nonetheless, the Committee judges that some inflation risks remain. The extent and timing of any additional firming that may be needed to address these risks will depend on the evolution of the outlook for both inflation and economic growth, as implied by incoming information."
Votes for this action: Messrs. Bernanke and Geithner, Ms. Bies, Messrs. Guynn, Kohn, Kroszner, and Mishkin, Ms. Pianalto, Mr. Warsh, and Ms.Yellen.

Votes against this action: Mr. Lacker.

Mr. Lacker dissented because he believed that further tightening was needed to bring inflation down more rapidly than would be the case if the policy rate were kept unchanged. Recent data indicated that inflation remained above levels consistent with price stability. Moreover, the upswing in compensation and unit labor costs in the first half of the year indicated that inflation risks were tilted to the upside. Although real growth was likely to be moderate in coming quarters, in his view it was unlikely to be slow enough to bring core inflation down.

The meeting adjourned at 1:20 p.m.

Notation Vote
By notation vote completed on August 28, 2006, the Committee unanimously approved the minutes of the FOMC meeting held on August 8, 2006.