Growing concerns about developments in the euro area and weaker-than-expected economic data in the United States and abroad both weighed on financial markets since the time of the April FOMC meeting. The deterioration in investor sentiment was tempered to an extent by market participants' expectations for further policy accommodation by central banks as well as by the anticipation of additional measures to address European fiscal and banking issues.

Yields on longer-dated nominal and inflation-protected Treasury securities moved down substantially, on net, over the intermeeting period. The yield on nominal 10-year Treasury securities reached a historically low level immediately following the release of the May employment report. A sizable portion of the decline in longer-term Treasury rates over the period appeared to reflect greater safe-haven demands by investors, along with some increase in market participants' expectations of further Federal Reserve balance sheet actions. Indicators of inflation expectations derived from nominal and inflation-protected Treasury securities also fell, apparently responding at least in part to the decline in commodity prices. The expected path for the federal funds rate derived from money market futures quotes shifted down in 2014 and beyond.

There was limited evidence of increased strains in unsecured, short-term dollar funding markets over the intermeeting period despite heightened concerns about the situation in Europe. In secured funding markets, the overnight general collateral Treasury repo rate edged higher. Market participants attributed some portion of the firming in short-term rates over the past several months to a temporary increase in short-dated Treasury securities held by dealers as a result of cumulative net Treasury issuance of such securities and sales of these securities by the Federal Reserve under its maturity extension program.

Broad U.S. stock price indexes declined, and option-implied volatility on the S&P 500 index rose. Equity prices for large domestic banks significantly underperformed the broad indexes amid uncertainty about the situation in Europe and the outlook for the global economy. Disclosure of a large trading loss at a major U.S. bank also contributed to the underperformance. Investors' expectation that five large U.S. banks would have their credit ratings downgraded at the end of June, as part of rating agencies' review of major financial institutions, may also have weighed on the equity prices of those banks.

In the June 2012 Senior Credit Officer Opinion Survey on Dealer Financing Terms (SCOOS), respondents reported that terms in a variety of dealer-intermediated markets were little changed over the past three months. Some respondents reported a decline in the use of leverage by hedge funds across various transaction types.

Yields on investment- and speculative-grade corporate debt remained low by historical standards, but their spreads over comparable-maturity Treasury securities widened a bit. Nonfinancial firms continued to raise funds at a solid pace over the period, with the proceeds primarily used to refinance existing debt. Both commercial and industrial (C&I) loans and nonfinancial commercial paper outstanding increased, on net, during April and May. New syndicated loan issuance also appeared to remain solid, although there were some reports of tighter terms. Gross public equity issuance by nonfinancial firms remained strong in April and into May but then slowed after the poor performance of a prominent initial public offering.

Financing conditions for the commercial real estate sector remained strained over the intermeeting period. Even so, issuance of commercial mortgage-backed securities in April and May outpaced issuance during the first quarter.

Credit conditions in residential mortgage markets continued to be tight. Mortgage refinancing activity rose in April and May but remained subdued despite further declines in mortgage rates to historically low levels. Consumer credit expanded at a solid pace in recent months, as increases in student loans boosted nonrevolving credit while revolving credit was about flat. Delinquency rates for consumer credit remained low, partly reflecting a shift in the composition of borrowers toward those with higher credit scores.

Gross issuance of long-term municipal bonds picked up in April and May, with net issuance turning positive for the first time since the beginning of 2011. However, credit default swap spreads for state governments generally moved higher, and spreads on long-term general obligation municipal bonds over comparable-maturity Treasury securities rose as well.

Bank credit expanded in April and May. Banks' holdings of securities continued to rise, and core loans—C&I, real estate, and consumer loans—also increased modestly. The May Survey of Terms of Business Lending indicated that lending conditions again eased slightly, although perhaps less so for small businesses.

M2 increased at a somewhat slower pace in April and May than in the first quarter of the year. The level of M2 and its largest component—liquid deposits—remained elevated, apparently reflecting investors' continued desire to hold safe and liquid assets.

Heightened financial strains in the euro area and indications of a weaker pace of global economic activity weighed on foreign financial markets during the intermeeting period. Yields on most euro-area peripheral countries' sovereign debt rose, particularly after the May 6 elections in Greece failed to produce a new government. In addition, indicators of the conditions of European banks continued to deteriorate: Rating agencies downgraded major banks in Germany, Italy, Spain, and several other European countries; prices of euro-area bank stocks fell sharply; and credit default swap premiums for many euro-area banks increased. Pressures on Spanish banks led euro-area authorities to agree to provide official aid to the Spanish government for the purpose of recapitalizing the country's troubled banks. Indicators of funding market stresses remained muted, as many banks obtained funds from the European Central Bank (ECB) rather than interbank markets. The spreads of euro London interbank offered rates (or euro LIBOR) over comparable overnight index swap rates, along with implied basis spreads from euro–dollar swaps, were little changed at short maturities, and the amount of dollar swaps outstanding with the ECB declined on balance. The total outstanding amount drawn on the Federal Reserve's dollar liquidity swap lines with foreign central banks dropped to $24.2 billion over the intermeeting period.

Although equity prices in many countries rallied modestly late in the intermeeting period, global equity prices declined, on balance, over the period, with especially large net decreases in Japan and many emerging market economies. Flight-to-safety flows helped push yields on both U.K. and German 10-year sovereign debt to record lows before these rates partly retraced their declines. The staff's broad nominal dollar index ended the intermeeting period up moderately. Signs of a slowdown in global economic growth prompted policy easing by central banks in Brazil, China, and Australia, and the Bank of England announced new lending initiatives.

The risks to the U.S. financial system emanating from strains in Europe appeared to increase over the intermeeting period. Although signs of strains in short-term funding markets were muted, the reliance of some financial firms on these markets remained a potential vulnerability, given that investors could withdraw rapidly in a period of financial stress. Respondents to the June 2012 SCOOS reported that financial institutions and market participants had increased the amount of resources and attention devoted to the management of concentrated exposures to central counterparties and other financial utilities.