Investor sentiment fluctuated over the intermeeting period largely in response to ongoing trade negotiations between the United States and China. On net, equity prices increased moderately while corporate bond spreads narrowed slightly. Yields on nominal Treasury securities were little changed. Financing conditions for businesses and households remained supportive of spending and economic activity.

Federal Reserve communications over the intermeeting period were viewed as suggesting that additional near-term changes to the target range for the federal funds rate were less likely than had previously been expected. A straight read of the probability distribution for the federal funds rate implied by options prices suggested that investors assigned a high probability to the target range remaining unchanged at the December FOMC meeting. Forward rates implied by overnight index swap quotes declined slightly, on net, and implied about a 25 basis point decline in the federal funds rate by the end of 2020.

Nominal Treasury yields fluctuated over the intermeeting period but, on net, the Treasury curve was little changed. Measures of inflation compensation over the next 5 years and 5 to 10 years ahead based on Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities increased slightly from near multiyear low levels.

Broad stock price indexes increased moderately over the intermeeting period amid movements largely attributed to trade-related developments and stronger-than-expected U.S. employment reports. Option-implied volatility on the S&P 500 index increased modestly but remained near the low end of its historical distribution. On net, corporate credit spreads narrowed slightly.

Conditions in short-term funding markets were stable over the intermeeting period. Interest rates for overnight secured and unsecured loans fell in line with the 25 basis point decrease in the target range for the federal funds rate at the October FOMC meeting. Trading in money markets was orderly, with volumes in normal ranges and spreads narrower relative to the IOER rate. Pressures on rates at October month-end and November mid-month—both days with sizable settlements of Treasury auctions—were muted compared with other recent Treasury issuance days. The Desk's open market operations aimed at maintaining ample reserves proceeded smoothly.

As in U.S. markets, sentiment in foreign financial markets fluctuated in response to news on U.S.–China trade negotiations. Most foreign equity price indexes and long-term sovereign yields in Germany, the United Kingdom, and Japan increased modestly on net. The broad dollar index ended the period little changed. Political unrest in Hong Kong and Latin America garnered some financial market attention and led to a weakening of some Latin American currencies, notably the Chilean peso, but the imprint on broader financial markets was limited.

Financing conditions for nonfinancial businesses remained accommodative. Gross issuance of corporate bonds was robust, on average, in October and November. Gross issuance of institutional leveraged loans remained near recent monthly averages. Meanwhile, commercial and industrial loans held by banks contracted in October but increased modestly in November. The credit quality of nonfinancial corporations deteriorated slightly in recent months but remained solid overall. After particularly strong gross equity issuance in September, initial public offerings declined and seasoned offerings remained solid in October and November. Credit conditions for both small businesses and municipalities stayed accommodative.

In the commercial real estate (CRE) sector, financing conditions also remained generally accommodative. Commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS) spreads widened slightly over the intermeeting period but remained near the low end of their post-crisis range. Agency and non-agency CMBS issuance increased in October to a post-crisis high. CRE loan growth at banks also increased in October relative to recent quarters.

Financing conditions in the residential mortgage market remained accommodative over the intermeeting period. Mortgage rates were little changed since the October FOMC meeting. Consistent with this year's decline in mortgage rates, home-purchase originations and refinancing originations both rose. Mortgage credit standards were little changed.

Financing conditions in consumer credit markets remained generally supportive of growth in consumer spending, al­though conditions continued to be tight for nonprime borrowers. Auto loans increased, consistent with significant declines in auto loan interest rates this year. Credit card debt grew at a solid pace, and interest rates on credit card debt began to fall. Consumer asset‑backed securities issuance was strong through October as spreads stabilized at levels that were somewhat above their post-crisis averages.