The information available for the December 10–11 meeting indicated that labor market conditions remained strong and that real gross domestic product (GDP) was increasing at a moderate rate in the second half of 2019. Consumer price inflation, as measured by the 12‑month percentage change in the price index for personal consumption expenditures (PCE), remained below 2 percent in October. Survey-based measures of longer-run inflation expectations were little changed.

Total nonfarm payroll employment surged in November, boosted in part by the return of auto workers who had previously been on strike in October. The average pace of job gains over the three months ending in November, which is unaffected by the strike, was stronger than earlier in 2019. However, the rate of increase in payrolls so far this year was slower than last year, even accounting for the anticipated effects of the Bureau of Labor Statistics' benchmark revision to payroll employment, which will be incorporated in the published data in February 2020. The unemployment rate ticked up in October but then moved back down to its 50-year low of 3.5 percent in November; the labor force participation rate and the employment-to-population ratio held steady, on balance, over those two months. The unemployment rates for African Americans, Asians, Hispanics, and whites were little changed, on net, over the past two months; the unemployment rate for each group was below its level at the end of the previous economic expansion, though persistent differentials between these rates remained. The average share of workers employed part time for economic reasons in November stayed below its level in late 2007. Both the rate of private-sector job openings and the rate of quits edged down in September, but these readings were still at fairly elevated levels. The four-week moving average of initial claims for unemployment insurance benefits through late November remained near historically low levels. In general, recent measures of nominal wage growth continued to be moderate. Total labor compensation per hour in the business sector increased 3.7 percent over the four quarters ending in the third quarter. The employment cost index for private-sector workers rose 2.7 percent over the 12 months ending in September, while average hourly earnings for all employees increased 3.1 percent over the 12 months ending in November.

Total consumer prices, as measured by the PCE price index, increased 1.3 percent over the 12 months ending in October. Core PCE price inflation (which excludes changes in consumer food and energy prices) was 1.6 percent over that same 12-month period, while consumer food price inflation was lower than core inflation and consumer energy prices declined. The trimmed mean measure of 12-month PCE price inflation constructed by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas remained at 2 percent in October. The consumer price index (CPI) rose 2.1 percent over the 12 months ending in November, while core CPI inflation was 2.3 percent. Recent readings on survey-based measures of longer-run inflation expectations—including those from the University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers, the Survey of Professional Forecasters, the Survey of Consumer Expectations from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, and the Desk's Survey of Primary Dealers and Survey of Market Participants—were little changed, on balance; the Michigan survey measure ticked back down in early December to the bottom of its recent range after ticking up in November.

Real PCE continued to expand in October following a strong gain in the third quarter. Sales of light motor vehicles rose markedly in November. Key factors that influence consumer spending—including the low unemployment rate, the upward trend in real disposable income, high levels of households' net worth, and generally low interest rates—were supportive of solid real PCE growth in the near term. The Michigan survey measure of consumer sentiment rose again in early December to an upbeat level and had more than recovered from its drop in August; the Conference Board survey measure of consumer confidence remained at a favorable level in November.

Real residential investment appeared to be increasing further after rising solidly in the third quarter. Both starts and building permit issuance for single-family homes increased in October, and starts of multifamily units also rose. Existing home sales continued to increase in October, al­though new home sales edged down following a solid gain in the third quarter. All told, the data on construction and sales continued to suggest that the decline in mortgage rates since late 2018 has been boosting housing activity.

Real nonresidential private fixed investment remained weak overall after declining in the second and third quarters. Nominal shipments and new orders of nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft increased solidly in October following a string of decreases, al­though many forward-looking indicators pointed to continued softness in business equipment spending. Most measures of business sentiment were still downbeat, analysts' expectations of firms' longer-term profit growth edged down further, and concerns about trade developments continued to weigh on firms' investment decisions. Nominal business expenditures for nonresidential structures outside of the drilling and mining sector continued to decline in October, and the total number of crude oil and natural gas rigs in operation—an indicator of business spending for structures in the drilling and mining sector—fell further through early December.

Industrial production decreased in October and remained notably lower than at the beginning of the year. Production in October continued to be held down by the strike at General Motors, al­though the end of the strike and automakers' schedules suggested that assemblies of light motor vehicles would rebound in November. Overall manufacturing production appeared likely to remain soft in coming months, reflecting generally weak readings on new orders from national and regional manufacturing surveys, declining domestic business investment, slow economic growth abroad, and a persistent drag from trade developments.

Total real government purchases were increasing slowly in the fourth quarter. Nominal defense spending in October pointed to only a modest rise in real federal government purchases. Real purchases by state and local governments looked to be moving roughly sideways; state and local payrolls expanded modestly, on net, over October and November, and nominal construction spending by these governments was about flat in October.

The nominal U.S. international trade deficit narrowed in October. Exports fell a little, with declines in all export categories except for services and industrial supplies. Imports fell much more, and the declines were broad based, with the largest contributions coming from imports of consumer goods and automotive products. Available trade data suggested that the contribution of net exports to real GDP growth, which was slightly negative in the third quarter, would turn somewhat positive in the fourth quarter.

Foreign economic growth slowed further in the third quarter amid continued weakness in the global manufacturing sector. Recent monthly indicators pointed to a stabilization in the pace of economic growth in China and several advanced foreign economies. However, other indicators suggested that social unrest weighed heavily on economic activity in several countries, most notably in Hong Kong, and that weakness persisted in parts of Latin America. Foreign inflation picked up somewhat as energy prices stabilized, al­though inflation remained relatively low in most foreign economies.