The System Open Market Account manager first reviewed developments in financial markets over the intermeeting period. Market prices appeared to respond mainly to signs of stabilization in the U.S. and global economies and to developments associated with trade policy. Market participants noted some risks to the outlook including Brexit and geopolitical factors.

Regarding expectations for U.S. monetary policy, the Open Market Trading Desk's surveys and market-based indicators pointed to a very high perceived likelihood of no change in the target range for the federal funds rate at this meeting. The expected path of the federal funds rate implied by the medians of survey respondents' modal forecasts remained essentially flat through 2020. Survey- and market-implied uncertainty about the near-term outlook for monetary policy declined, with market commentary attributing the decrease in part to the Committee's October communications. Survey respondents placed a higher probability on a reduction in the target range over 2020 than an increase.

The manager turned next to a review of money market developments since the October meeting, starting with an update on the implementation of the Committee's strategy to ensure ample reserves. Reserve management purchases of Treasury bills continued at a pace of $60 billion per month, with propositions remaining strong and little discernible effect on market functioning. While these purchases accumulated, the Desk continued to conduct regular repurchase agreement (repo) operations in order to maintain reserves at or above the level that prevailed in early September. Repos outstanding from these Desk operations totaled roughly $215 billion per day, consisting of both overnight and term operations.

As reserve levels increased, the distribution of reserves across bank types became comparable with where it was in early September. The federal funds rate and other overnight money market rates fell modestly and were close to the interest on excess reserves (IOER) rate for most of the period. The intraday dispersion of rates was also lower than when reserves were at similar levels before September. In addition to helping keep reserves ample, repo operations likely have reduced pressures in money markets and the dispersion in money market rates.

With respect to conditions around year-end, the manager noted that forward measures of market pricing continued to indicate expectations of temporary upward pressures on some secured rates. Money market rates are often volatile around year-end, and Federal Reserve operations are not intended to eliminate all year-end pressures but rather to ensure that reserve supply remains ample and to mitigate the risk that such pressures could adversely affect the implementation of monetary policy. The Desk had already conducted three longer-term repo operations spanning year-end—for a total of $75 billion—and planned to announce an additional longer-term operation, as well as increase the amount of overnight repo offered around the year-end date. The manager reported that the Desk is closely monitoring reserves and money market conditions and that it is prepared to adjust plans as needed.

The manager discussed two operational considerations around policy implementation. The first involved the risk that future Treasury bill purchases could have a larger effect on liquidity in the Treasury bill market in light of expected seasonal declines in bill issuance and the Federal Reserve's growing ownership share of outstanding bills. If this risk were to materialize, the Federal Reserve could consider expanding the universe of securities purchased for reserve management purposes to include coupon-bearing Treasury securities with a short time to maturity. Purchases of these short-dated securities would not affect broader financial conditions or the stance of monetary policy. The manager also discussed expectations to gradually transition away from active repo operations next year as Treasury bill purchases supply a larger base of reserves. The calendar of repo operations starting in mid-January could reflect a gradual reduction in active repo operations. The manager indicated that some repos might be needed at least through April, when tax payments will sharply reduce reserve levels.

As reserves remain ample, the manager noted that it may become appropriate at some point to implement a technical adjustment to the IOER rate and the offered rate on overnight reverse repurchase (ON RRP) agreements. Should conditions warrant this adjustment, the IOER rate could move closer to the middle of the target range for the federal funds rate, and the ON RRP rate could be realigned with the bottom of the target range.

The manager also noted that the Federal Reserve Bank of New York communicated to its customers that the remuneration rate on the foreign repo pool will be revised to be generally equivalent to the overnight reverse repo rate. This action may reduce activity in the pool to some extent and increase the level of reserves.

By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Desk's domestic transactions over the intermeeting period. There were no intervention operations in foreign currencies for the System's account during the intermeeting period.