Participants continued to discuss issues related to the ongoing review of the Federal Reserve's monetary policy strategy, tools, and communication practices. The staff summarized the feedback received through the Fed Listens initiative, a series of 14 public-facing events conducted around the country with a broad range of individuals and groups. These events engaged with the public directly on issues pertaining to the dual-mandate objectives of maximum employment and stable prices. Representatives from underserved communities who participated in the Fed Listens events generally saw the current strong labor market as providing significant benefits to their communities, most notably by creating greater opportunities for individuals who have experienced difficulty finding jobs in the past. Nevertheless, these representatives noted that the benefits from current labor market conditions flowing to people in their communities were less than those implied by national statistics, and they expressed concerns that the recent gains might not be sustained in the event of an economic downturn. Business representatives reported experiencing challenges finding qualified workers and described several initiatives to attract and retain workers, including training programs and a willingness to employ individuals who are unlikely to have been considered in less favorable labor market conditions. Inflation developments elicited fewer comments at these events and were generally seen as posing less of a challenge than labor market conditions. Representatives of retirees mentioned difficulties associated with the rising costs of health care and prescription drugs, whereas those representing low- and middle-income communities pointed to the rising costs of basic necessities such as housing, utilities, and food. Business representatives emphasized the importance of low and stable inflation for planning and decisionmaking. Event participants were concerned about rising costs of living and generally perceived low inflation as desirable from that perspective. Event participants were asked about monetary policymakers' concerns regarding overall inflation running persistently below 2 percent; they noted that the Federal Reserve could better communicate its reasons for these concerns. When asked about the effects of changes in interest rates, representatives of underserved communities said that such changes had little effect on many members of their communities who have limited or no access to credit. Representatives of retirees conveyed a more negative view of low interest rates, given the greater reliance of wealthier retirees on interest income. Business representatives generally found the low interest rate environment beneficial.

The staff briefing also included an analysis of distributional considerations for monetary policy. Consistent with the feedback received at the Fed Listens events, the evidence reviewed by the staff showed that workers who are young, less educated, African American, or Hispanic tend to face a greater-than-average risk of losing their jobs during recessions. The staff used simulations from a specific macroeconomic model to explore how heterogeneity of households might affect the transmission of economic shocks and changes in monetary policy to the economy. The staff's simulations embedded the assumption that households have limited ability to borrow, which makes some households' consumption spending more sensitive to changes in income. As a result, in these simulations, downturns lead to larger contractions in aggregate demand than would be the case if all households could borrow to support their consumption spending in response to a loss in income. The amplification of recessionary shocks was especially large when the monetary policy response was constrained by the effective lower bound (ELB) on the policy interest rate. Overall, the analysis suggested that the costs of recessions, as well as the benefits of economic stabilization, might be larger than suggested by models that did not account for differences across households regarding their access to credit.

Participants agreed that the Fed Listens outreach efforts had informed their understanding of the goals and tradeoffs associated with monetary policy and had provided highly useful input into their deliberations. Several participants voiced their desire to continue the conversations initiated at the Fed Listens events. Participants also shared their appreciation of the feedback they receive on a regular basis from members of the public, including through the Federal Reserve System's extensive networks of contacts and community outreach efforts. A few participants emphasized that policymakers' engagement with the public helps build trust, fosters transparency, and reinforces the credibility of the Federal Reserve.

Participants generally saw the feedback from Fed Listens events as reinforcing the importance of sustaining the economic expansion so that the effects of a persistently strong job market reach more of those who, in the past, had experienced difficulty finding employment. Several participants mentioned that sustaining strong labor market conditions helps workers build skills and cement their attachment to the labor force in a manner that might reduce the scarring effects of future downturns and might increase the maximum sustainable level of employment over the longer run. A number of participants also emphasized that sustaining strong labor market conditions is helpful for meeting the Committee's symmetric 2 percent inflation goal.

Some participants spoke to some of the challenges associated with assessing the maximum level of employment. A few participants noted that aggregate statistics mask significant heterogeneity in labor market outcomes. A few others pointed to the continued absence of significant wage and price pressure—traditionally seen as a symptom of a tight labor market—even as the unemployment rate had moved below most estimates of its longer-run level. A few participants raised the possibility that the maximum sustainable level of employment had increased as the expansion continued to draw workers who would otherwise not be in the labor force.

Regarding inflation, participants recognized that segments of the public generally do not regard the fact that aggregate inflation is running modestly below the Committee's 2 percent goal as a problem. A few participants noted that the public's view on this issue was understandable from the perspective of households and businesses going about their daily lives in an economy with low and stable inflation. That said, a couple of participants cautioned that inflation could emerge as a concern among members of the public if it became more volatile or ran at levels substantially away from the Committee's goal. Many participants also warned about the macroeconomic consequences of not achieving 2 percent on a sustained basis. In particular, if inflation ran persistently below the Committee's objective, longer-term inflation expectations could drift down, resulting in lower actual inflation. With lower inflation, nominal interest rates would be lower as well and therefore closer to the ELB. As a result, the scope for monetary policy to support the economy in a future downturn through interest rate cuts would be reduced, a situation that would likely worsen economic outcomes for households and businesses. In light of these considerations, participants generally agreed that they need to communicate more clearly to the public their rationale for, and commitment to, achieving 2 percent inflation on a sustained basis and of ensuring that longer-run inflation expectations are anchored at levels consistent with this objective. To ensure the effectiveness of these and other communications, several participants stressed that the Federal Reserve needs to adapt its communications to various audiences. A few participants emphasized that communications about the Committee's resolve to return inflation to 2 percent need to be backed with actions and results to ensure that the public sees these communications as credible.

With respect to the role of distributional considerations in the pursuit of the dual-mandate objectives, several participants noted that it was important for policymakers to be cognizant of how monetary policy affects different segments of the population. Most participants commented on the large costs that recessions and high unemployment impose on communities, notably on their most vulnerable constituents, and stressed the need for monetary policy to seek to avoid recessions in the first place or reduce their severity when they occur. A number of these participants emphasized that, while monetary policy actions can have different effects across groups, monetary policy actions that are driven by the pursuit of maximum employment and stable prices ultimately benefit all groups. Participants viewed the role of monetary policy as supporting a strong, stable economy that benefits all Americans. Various participants noted that monetary policy is a blunt instrument whose effects cannot be targeted to specific communities. Several participants remarked that while monetary policy actions can improve the conditions of vulnerable communities, notably by supporting a strong job market, these actions may not reduce inequality in wealth and income. For these and other reasons, many participants emphasized that policies other than monetary policy are appropriate to directly address inequality. In addition, a couple of participants cautioned that maintaining accommodative financial conditions could be counterproductive if doing so fueled financial imbalances and exacerbated the next economic downturn.

Participants agreed that their review of monetary policy strategy, tools, and communication practices would continue at future meetings and, as a result, that the Committee would not reaffirm its existing Statement on Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy at the January 2020 meeting. The Committee plans to revisit this statement closer to the conclusion of the review, likely around the middle of 2020.