The projection for U.S. real GDP growth prepared by the staff for the December FOMC meeting was revised up a little for the second half of 2019 relative to the previous projection. This revision primarily reflected incoming data for household spending and business investment that were somewhat stronger than expected. Even with this upward revision, real GDP was forecast to rise more slowly in the second half of the year than in the first half, mostly because of continued soft business investment and slower increases in government spending. The forecast for real GDP growth over the medium term was also revised up a bit, on balance, primarily in response to a somewhat higher projected path for equity prices. Nevertheless, real GDP growth was still expected to slow modestly in the coming years, largely because of a fading boost from fiscal policy. Output was forecast to expand at a rate a little above the staff's estimate of its potential rate of growth in 2019 through 2021 and then to slow to a pace slightly below potential output growth in 2022. The unemployment rate was projected to be roughly flat at around its current level through 2022 and to remain below the staff's estimate of its longer-run natural rate.

The staff's forecast for total PCE price inflation in 2019 was revised down a bit, as a downward revision to core PCE prices in response to recent data was partly offset by an upward revision to consumer energy prices. Beyond 2019, core inflation was expected to be above its pace this year, and this projection was revised up a touch because of the slightly tighter resource utilization in the current forecast. The projection for total inflation in 2020 was a little lower than for core inflation due to a projected decline in consumer energy prices. Over the remainder of the medium-term projection, total inflation was expected to be about the same as core inflation, al­though both inflation measures were forecast to continue to run a bit below 2 percent through 2022.

The staff continued to view the uncertainty around its projections for real GDP growth, the unemployment rate, and inflation as generally similar to the average of the past 20 years. The staff viewed the downside risks to economic activity as having eased a bit since the previous forecast but still judged that the risks to the forecast for real GDP growth were tilted to the downside, with a corresponding skew to the upside for the unemployment rate. Important factors influencing this assessment were that international trade tensions and foreign economic developments seemed more likely to move in directions that could have significant negative effects on the U.S. economy than to resolve more favorably than assumed. In addition, softness in business investment and manufacturing production so far this year were seen as pointing to the possibility of a more substantial slowing in economic growth than the staff projected. The risks to the inflation projection were also viewed as having a downward skew, in part because of the downside risks to the forecast for economic activity.