The information reviewed at this meeting indicated that economic activity probably steadied in the fourth quarter after a sizable drop in the summer. Final demand appeared to have increased appreciably, reflecting strength in consumer spending and a smaller decline in business purchases of durable equipment and software. However, businesses met a good part of the pickup in final demand through a large runoff of inventories, and as a consequence manufacturing activity and payroll employment continued to weaken late in the year, though at a slower pace. Falling energy prices and widespread discounting of goods held down consumer price inflation.

The labor market deteriorated somewhat further in December, and the unemployment rate continued to climb, to 5.8 percent. Private nonfarm payrolls fell considerably, with manufacturing again experiencing the largest job losses, but the decrease was less than in previous months and aggregate hours worked by private production workers leveled out after six months of decline. Recent data on initial claims for unemployment insurance pointed to a further moderation in employment losses in January.

Industrial production edged down in December after having fallen sharply in previous months. A number of industries experienced further reductions in output, with weakness most pronounced in consumer nondurables and business equipment. In contrast, motor vehicle assemblies rose to a still higher rate, presumably in response to the robust sales of the preceding two months, and the production of semiconductors and computers continued to strengthen. The rate of utilization of total manufacturing capacity declined a little further in December, and the average rate for the fourth quarter was at its lowest quarterly level since 1983.

Growth of consumer spending strengthened considerably late in the year after a slow advance in the third quarter. A surge in purchases of motor vehicles in response to attractive financing incentives was a key factor in the pickup, but expenditures on goods other than motor vehicles evidently also accelerated slightly. By contrast, spending on services expanded at a reduced pace, owing at least in part to relatively low demand for residential heating services.

Despite unseasonably warm and dry autumn weather, residential construction slowed somewhat in the fourth quarter. For the year as a whole, though, homebuilding and home sales remained relatively brisk as very low mortgage rates tended to offset the effects of a weakening job market and sluggish growth in personal income. An apparent consequence of reduced income growth and of lower equity prices was a change in the mix of single-family homebuilding, with less emphasis on construction of high-priced homes.

Business expenditures on durable equipment and software contracted less rapidly in the fourth quarter, and monthly data indicated that such spending might be bottoming out late in the year despite further decreases in business output and continuing weakness in corporate cash flows. Business purchases of motor vehicles accounted for some of the improvement, and expenditures for computers and related equipment apparently recorded a small gain. Elsewhere, though, acquisitions of communications equipment were still on a downward trend, and business spending in sectors other than high technology and transportation remained weak. Nonresidential construction declined sharply further in the fourth quarter despite favorable weather over much of the country. Spending on industrial structures plunged, reflecting low capacity utilization in manufacturing and rising vacancy rates. Office building activity also fell as increasing amounts of available space and uncertainties regarding rents and property values weighed on the office market.

Nonfarm inventory liquidation apparently was very rapid in the fourth quarter, but inventory-sales ratios remained elevated in an environment of weak sales. The book value of manufacturing and trade inventories plunged in October and November (latest data), but progress in getting inventory overhangs under control was limited. In manufacturing, the sector's stock-shipments ratio persisted at a high level despite continuing sizable rundowns in inventories since the spring. Wholesalers apparently stepped up their runoffs of excess stocks in recent months, yet the aggregate inventory-sales ratio for the sector had fallen only slightly since midyear. Retailers made greater progress in reducing inventories, and despite relatively sluggish sales the sector's inventory-sales ratio dropped considerably and appeared to be at a fairly comfortable level.

The U.S. trade deficit in goods and services narrowed slightly on balance in October and November (latest data) from the third-quarter level (adjusted to exclude large, one-time payments by foreign insurers related to the events of September 11) as the value of imports for the two-month period fell by more than the value of exports. The available information suggested further slight slippage of economic activity in the foreign industrial countries in the fourth quarter. The Japanese economy remained very weak, economic activity in the euro area and Canada seemed to have contracted, and growth in the United Kingdom apparently slowed. There were some indications, however, of a brighter economic outlook ahead in the euro area, Canada, and the United Kingdom that would result in part from monetary easing actions that their respective central banks had taken. Economic conditions in the major emerging-market countries were mixed. There were increasing signs of a recovery in developing Asia, especially in some of the countries that had been hurt by the global high-tech slump, but conditions in Latin America remained relatively weak, with the Argentine economy having deteriorated further.

Consumer price inflation was quite low at year-end. With energy prices declining, both the consumer price index (CPI) and the personal consumption expenditure (PCE) chain-type price index edged down on balance in November and December. Moreover, excluding the effects of volatile oil prices, core consumer price inflation was held down late in the year by widespread discounting of goods. Consumer price inflation as measured by the core PCE index declined somewhat on a year-over-year basis, while core CPI inflation increased slightly in 2001. At the producer level, core prices for finished goods changed little in November and December, and the index for core producer inflation slowed noticeably last year. With regard to labor costs, growth of average hourly earnings of production or nonsupervisory workers picked up in November and December, but the average wage increase for the year was moderate and slightly less than that for 2000.