In the Committee's discussion of current and prospective economic conditions, members commented that the recent information was more positive than they had anticipated and seemed on the whole to indicate that economic activity was bottoming out and a recovery might already be under way. Important impetus to economic activity in the period immediately ahead likely would be provided by a turnaround in inventory investment following several quarters of increasingly large liquidation that had culminated in the outsized decline in inventories reported for the fourth quarter. Looking beyond the near term, members expressed considerable uncertainty about the prospective strength of final demand. The stimulus from fiscal and monetary actions taken in 2001, the impetus to growth from the inducement to new investment provided by improving technology, and the persisting uptrend in household spending would support the economic recovery. However, household spending had been relatively robust during the cyclical downturn and likely had only limited room for a pickup over coming quarters, and intense competitive pressures could well constrain profits, investment, and equity prices. As a result, the members were concerned that the acceleration in final demand could be modest, at least for a time. Against this background, the prospects for continued low inflation remained favorable, given the currently reduced utilization of resources and indeed the prospect for some added slack should economic growth remain below potential in coming quarters, as many members anticipated. Moreover, the further passthrough of earlier declines in energy prices would continue to ease pressures on prices and costs more generally throughout the economy.

In preparing for the semi-annual monetary policy report to Congress, the Board members and Reserve Bank presidents provided their individual projections for the growth of GDP, civilian unemployment, and consumer price inflation for the year 2002. They projected that the economy would begin to recover this year from the generally mild downturn experienced in 2001, but the pace of expansion would pick up only gradually and the unemployment rate would climb somewhat further. The central tendency of their forecasts of growth in real GDP for 2002 was 2-1/2 to 3 percent, measured as the change between the fourth quarter of 2001 and the fourth quarter of 2002, while their forecasts of the civilian unemployment rate in the fourth quarter of the year were centered on 6 to 6-1/4 percent. The forecasts of consumer price inflation this year, as measured by the PCE chain-type price index, were narrowly clustered around 1-1/2 percent.

With regard to the prospective course of the projected recovery, members generally anticipated that a positive swing in inventory investment abetted by further growth in consumer spending would provide an important upward thrust to the expansion over the nearer term. The inventory correction that had occurred over the past year was of a magnitude that would inevitably result in a reduced rate of liquidation and an eventual restocking unless, contrary to current expectations, consumer spending were to weaken markedly. The accompanying fillip to production and incomes would have positive feedback effects over time on household expenditures and business investment. The extent and timing of the turnaround in inventory investment for the economy as a whole were subject to a considerable degree of uncertainty, but members noted that some firms already appeared to have adjusted their inventories to what they viewed as acceptable levels, and there were indications that some manufacturing firms were making efforts to rebuild inventories in the context of improving orders. More generally, however, business firms appeared to have remained very cautious in setting their inventory investment plans.

The evidence of unexpected strength in overall final demand indicated by the just-released GDP report was supported by anecdotal commentary from around the nation. Regional economic reports were somewhat mixed in that declining activity still characterized conditions in some areas, but the pace of the declines appeared to have moderated in those areas and improved conditions were noted in other parts of the country. Business sentiment, while still quite depressed in some areas, was described in many reports as having shifted toward cautious optimism.

Concerning prospective developments in final demand in major sectors of the economy, several members underscored what they viewed as the key role of household expenditures. Such spending had held up remarkably well in the face of major adverse developments, including sharp declines in stock market wealth and rising unemployment, that were exacerbated by the events of September 11. But with households remaining confident about the future and equity prices having rebounded from their post-attack declines, sustained growth in household expenditures was seen as a likely prospect. Such spending also would be supported in part by some strengthening or less weakness in other important sectors of the economy. Some members nonetheless cited a number of potential negatives relating to the prospects for consumer spending, including the possibility of adverse effects on consumer confidence of further anticipated increases in unemployment and the risk that generally disappointing business profits or more widespread downward restatements of reported profits might generate sizable declines in stock market prices and consumer wealth. Moreover, the unusually large sales of motor vehicles and to a degree other durable goods during the closing months of 2001 might have borrowed to some extent from sales in coming months. On balance, the positive and negative factors bearing on the outlook for consumer spending suggested that moderate growth was a reasonable expectation.

Residential construction expenditures, like household spending for consumer goods and services, had held up well despite the cyclical downturn in employment and sizable net losses in stock market wealth. Low mortgage interest rates and, in recent months, favorable weather conditions had provided vital support to this sector of the economy. Recent housing activity, including record sales in some areas, suggested persisting underlying strength in residential construction. Even so, the large additions to the supply of new homes in earlier years tended to indicate that additional impetus, if any, from housing construction would be limited over the next several quarters.

The outlook for business capital expenditures was improving, but anecdotal reports suggested that business executives were still notably cautious in formulating their spending plans, and indications of accelerating capital investment were still quite limited. In the high-tech sector, positive signs were noted in the demand for computers and peripherals, but the outlook for communications equipment was still very negative. Business spending for other equipment was also expected to remain soft. On balance, the capital investment sector seemed likely to retard the overall advance in economic activity during the quarters immediately ahead as many firms continued to pare excess capacity and businesses awaited clearer indications of rising demand and profits. Beyond the nearer term, however, the favorable outlook for productivity growth and related profit opportunities pointed to a revival of robust capital spending. Indeed, past experience suggested that once a rebound in capital spending took hold it easily could exceed current forecasts of moderate acceleration.

Fiscal policy would continue to provide substantial stimulus to the economy this year in light of the ongoing effects of the tax reduction measures enacted in 2001 and the sharp increase in federal government spending in train. This outlook did not incorporate the possible enactment of further tax cut legislation, whose prospects now seemed to be remote. A partial offset to federal government stimulus was the likelihood of considerably reduced spending growth at the state and local government levels, where numerous government entities were experiencing severe budget strains associated with recession-related weakness in tax revenues.

The external sector of the economy was seen as a source of some potential downside for the domestic economy in the period just ahead. Generally weak foreign economies and the recent strength of the dollar in foreign exchange markets were expected to continue to restrain U.S. exports. Economic recoveries in many foreign nations seemed likely over the course of this year, but the strength of those recoveries was subject to considerable uncertainty, and the risk that serious difficulties in some important economies might spread could not be overlooked. Recovery abroad, notably in some key U.S. trading partners, would be tied to an important extent to the course of U.S. economic activity and would not be providing much impetus to U. S. exports over coming quarters. At this point signs of an upturn in foreign trade were not entirely lacking, notably in some high-tech goods, but those indications were still very limited.

Inflation was likely to remain quite subdued. Indeed, core inflation could well edge lower. The indirect effects of the declines that had occurred in energy prices would continue to hold down other input prices and be passed on more fully to final purchasers. More generally, the low rate of resource utilization anticipated over the year ahead, rising productivity, and highly competitive market pricing could be expected to moderate price pressures. Against that background, members continued to view the greater risks to the economy as those relating to concerns about economic activity rather than prices.

In the Committee's discussion of policy for the intermeeting period ahead, all the members agreed that recent developments argued for keeping the stance of policy unchanged at this time. Monetary policy had been eased substantially over the past year, and, with the real federal funds rate at an unusually low level, policy seemed well positioned to support an economic recovery as the forces restraining demand abated. In fact, a growing number of indicators pointed to a reduction in the pressures holding back the economy and to an emerging business recovery. In these circumstances, a pause seemed desirable to monitor the still-incomplete effects of the Committee's easing over the past year--a significant part of which had been implemented in recent months--and the contours of the turnaround in economic activity.

All the members indicated that they could support the issuance of a public statement indicating that the risks remained tilted toward economic weakness. Although the economy was probably strengthening, a variety of factors could well keep the pace of expansion below the rate of growth of potential for a while, even at the current policy stance. Moreover, inflation was running at a fairly low rate and quite possibly would edge down a little further over coming quarters. In these circumstances, the risk to achieving the Committee's objective for fostering sustainable economic growth seemed to be greater than to its objective of maintaining reasonable price stability. In the view of a few members, an argument could be made for moving to a balanced-risks statement, given that they could envisage developments that could strengthen the economy beyond their current forecasts. However, they agreed that a shift to balanced risks in conjunction with an unchanged policy stance could at this point be misread in financial markets as an indication of a much more optimistic view of the economic outlook than the members currently entertained. Such an interpretation might foster unwarranted and counterproductive adjustments in financial markets. In any event, emerging economic conditions in line with the members' current forecasts would provide ample opportunity to shift to a balanced-risks statement at a future meeting when it might be more clearly appropriate.