At its meeting on December 11, 2001, the Committee adopted a directive that called for implementing conditions in reserve markets consistent with a decrease of 25 basis points in the intended level of the federal funds rate, to about 1-3/4 percent. The members also agreed that the balance of risks remained weighted toward conditions that could generate economic weakness in the foreseeable future. The members noted that there were preliminary signs of some abatement of the contractionary forces acting on the economy, but they believed that a sub-par economic performance was likely to persist for a time. They also recognized that the stance of policy was already quite accommodative and that much of the effect of recent monetary easing actions was yet to be felt. In the circumstances, they saw a modest further reduction of the federal funds rate as providing some added insurance against a more extended contraction of the economy at little risk of a pickup in inflation.

Federal funds traded at rates close to the Committee's target level of 1-3/4 percent during the intermeeting period. The Committee's action had been widely anticipated, but the financial markets evidently interpreted the announcement as indicating that the FOMC's assessment of the economic outlook was weaker than had been assumed. Corporate announcements of downward revisions to forecasts of future revenues and capital spending also contributed to some marking down by market participants of prospects for economic activity. Yields on Treasury coupon securities declined slightly over the intermeeting period, risk spreads on corporate debt securities changed little, and major indexes of equity prices edged lower on balance.

In foreign exchange markets, the trade-weighted value of the dollar in terms of the major foreign currencies increased somewhat on balance over the intermeeting period and reached its highest level since the mid-1980s. Weakness of the Japanese yen was an important factor in that rise, as market participants focused on continuing problems in the Japanese economy and on comments by Japanese officials that seemed to signal a willingness to accept a weaker value for the yen. The dollar also appreciated slightly against the euro, perhaps reflecting a market view that the U.S. economy was likely to lead the rebound from the global slowdown. In addition, the exchange value of the dollar increased slightly in terms of an index of the currencies of other important trading partners, in part because of the depreciation of the Argentine peso.

Growth of M2 slowed slightly in December from November's robust pace and moderated considerably further in the early weeks of January. The brisk expansion of liquid deposits over recent months had been associated with the effects of mortgage refinancing activity and the substantial decline in the opportunity costs of such deposits that was related to previous easing actions. The currency component of M2 also had been strong in the latter part of 2001, largely the result of a pickup in demand for U.S. currency abroad. The debt of the domestic nonfinancial sectors was estimated to have expanded at a slightly slower rate in December, reflecting some moderation in business debt financing, a slightly slower pace of household borrowing, and little net borrowing by the federal government.