In the staff forecast prepared for the December FOMC meeting, real GDP growth in the second half of 2014 was higher than in the projection for the October meeting, largely reflecting stronger-than-expected data for PCE. Nevertheless, real GDP growth was anticipated to slow in the fourth quarter as both net exports and federal government purchases--important positive contributors to real GDP growth in the third quarter--were anticipated to drop back. The staff's medium-term forecast for real GDP growth was revised up a little on net. The projected path for oil prices was lower, and the trajectory for equity prices was a bit higher. And although the projected path of the dollar was revised up, the staff revised down its estimate of how much the appreciation of the dollar since last summer would restrain projected growth in real GDP. The staff continued to forecast that real GDP would expand at a faster pace in 2015 and 2016 than it had this year and that it would rise more quickly than potential output, supported by increases in consumer and business confidence and a pickup in foreign economic growth, along with monetary policy that was assumed to remain highly accommodative for some time. In 2017, real GDP growth was projected to begin slowing toward, but to remain above, the rate of potential output growth as the normalization of monetary policy was assumed to proceed. The expansion in economic activity over the medium term was anticipated to slowly reduce resource slack, and the unemployment rate was expected to decline gradually and to temporarily move slightly below the staff's estimate of its longer-run natural rate.

The staff's forecast for inflation in the near term was revised down to reflect the further large energy price declines since the October FOMC meeting, which were anticipated to lead to a temporary decrease in the total PCE price index late this year and early next year. The staff's inflation projection for the next few years was essentially unchanged; the staff continued to project that inflation would move up gradually toward, but run somewhat below, the Committee's longer-run objective of 2 percent. Nevertheless, inflation was projected to reach the Committee's objective over time, with longer-run inflation expectations assumed to remain stable, prices of energy and non-oil imports forecast to begin rising next year, and slack in labor and product markets anticipated to diminish slowly.

The staff viewed the uncertainty around its projections for real GDP growth, the unemployment rate, and inflation as similar to the average over the past 20 years. The risks to the forecast for real GDP growth and inflation were viewed as tilted a little to the downside, reflecting the staff's assessment that neither monetary policy nor fiscal policy was well positioned to help the economy withstand adverse shocks. At the same time, the staff viewed the risks around its outlook for the unemployment rate as roughly balanced.