The information reviewed for the December 16-17 meeting suggested that economic activity was increasing at a moderate pace in the fourth quarter and that labor market conditions had improved further. Consumer price inflation continued to run below the FOMC's longer-run objective of 2 percent, partly restrained by declining energy prices. Market-based measures of inflation compensation moved lower, but survey measures of longer-run inflation expectations remained stable.

Total nonfarm payroll employment expanded in October and November at a faster pace than in the third quarter. The unemployment rate edged down to 5.8 percent in October and remained at that level in November. Both the labor force participation rate and the employment-to-population ratio rose slightly, and the share of workers employed part time for economic reasons declined. The rate of private-sector job openings stayed, on balance, at its recent elevated level in September and October, and the rates of hiring and of quits stepped up on net.

Industrial production rose in October and November, led by strong increases in manufacturing output. Automakers' schedules indicated that the pace of light motor vehicle assemblies would move up somewhat in the first quarter, and broader indicators of manufacturing production, such as the readings on new orders from the national and regional manufacturing surveys, were generally consistent with solid gains in factory output over the near term.

Real personal consumption expenditures (PCE) appeared to be rising robustly in the fourth quarter. The components of the nominal retail sales data used to construct estimates of PCE rose strongly in October and November, and light motor vehicle sales increased noticeably. Key factors that influence household spending pointed toward further solid PCE growth. Real disposable income rose further in October, energy prices continued to decline, households' net worth likely increased as home values advanced, and consumer sentiment in early December from the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers was at its highest level since before the most recent recession.

The pace of activity in the housing sector generally remained slow. Both starts and permits of new single-family homes increased only a little, on balance, in October and November. Starts of multifamily units declined, on net, over the past two months. Sales of new and existing homes rose modestly in October.

Real private expenditures for business equipment and intellectual property appeared to be decelerating in the fourth quarter. Nominal orders and shipments of nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft declined in October. However, new orders for these capital goods remained above the level of shipments, and other forward-looking indicators, such as national and regional surveys of business conditions, were generally consistent with modest near-term gains in business equipment spending. Firms' nominal spending for nonresidential structures edged down in October after rising slightly in the third quarter.

Data for October and November pointed toward a decline in real federal government purchases in the fourth quarter after a surprisingly large third-quarter increase. Real state and local government purchases appeared to be rising modestly in the fourth quarter as their payrolls and construction expenditures increased a little in recent months.

The U.S. international trade deficit was little changed in October, as exports and imports both rose. The gains in exports were concentrated in aircraft and other capital goods, and the increase in imports reflected a pickup in purchases of automotive products and computers. But with the October deficit remaining wider than the monthly average in the third quarter, real net exports looked to be declining in the fourth quarter.

Both total U.S. consumer price inflation, as measured by the PCE price index, and core inflation, as measured by PCE prices excluding food and energy, were about 1-1/2 percent over the 12 months ending in October; consumer energy prices declined, while consumer food prices rose more than overall prices. Over the 12 months ending in November, total inflation as measured by the consumer price index (CPI) was 1 1/4 percent, partly reflecting the further decline in energy prices, while core CPI inflation was 1-3/4 percent. Measures of expected long-run inflation from a variety of surveys, including the Michigan survey, the Blue Chip Economic Indicators , the Survey of Professional Forecasters, and the Desk's Survey of Primary Dealers, remained stable. In contrast, market-based measures of inflation compensation moved lower.

Labor compensation continued to increase only a little faster than consumer prices. Compensation per hour in the nonfarm business sector rose about 2 percent over the year ending in the third quarter. Similar rates of increase were observed for the employment cost index over the same year-long period and for average hourly earnings for all employees over the 12 months ending in November.

Overall growth in foreign real gross domestic product (GDP) remained subdued in the third quarter. In the advanced foreign economies, real GDP contracted for a second consecutive quarter in Japan, rose only slightly in the euro area, but continued to expand moderately in Canada and the United Kingdom. In the emerging market economies, economic growth slowed in Mexico in the third quarter and remained sluggish in Brazil; economic growth in China likely slowed moderately in the fourth quarter. Oil prices continued to decline, likely reflecting favorable supply developments as well as some weakening in global demand. Inflation in the advanced foreign economies remained quite low during the intermeeting period, partly because of the fall in oil prices. Declining oil prices had a smaller effect on inflation in the emerging market economies, reflecting the greater prevalence of administered energy prices.