In a joint session of the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the manager of the System Open Market Account (SOMA) reported on developments in domestic and foreign financial markets as well as System open market operations conducted during the period since the Committee met on October 28-29, 2014. In addition, the manager reviewed the implications of recent foreign central bank policy actions for the international portion of the SOMA portfolio. The manager also provided an update on staff work related to potential arrangements that would allow depository institutions to pledge funds held in a segregated account at the Federal Reserve as collateral in borrowing transactions with private creditors and which could potentially provide an additional supplementary tool during policy normalization. After further review, staff analysis suggested that such accounts involved a number of operational, regulatory, and policy issues. These issues raised questions about these accounts' possible effectiveness that would be difficult to resolve in a timely fashion. It was therefore decided that further work to implement such accounts would be shelved for now.

The deputy manager followed with a discussion of the outcomes of recent tests of supplementary normalization tools, namely the Term Deposit Facility (TDF) and term and overnight reverse repurchase agreements (term RRPs and ON RRPs, respectively). Regarding the TDF testing, the introduction of an early withdrawal option led to significant increases in the number of participating depository institutions and in take-up relative to earlier operations without this feature. As expected, both participation and take-up in the operations continued to be sensitive to the offering rate and maximum individual award amount. The Open Market Desk successfully conducted the first two of four preannounced term RRP operations extending across the end of the year to help address expected downward pressures on short-term rates. Commentary from market participants suggested that these operations may help alleviate some of the volatility in short-term rates that would otherwise be expected around the year-end. Regarding the ON RRP testing--during which the offered rate was varied between 3 and 10 basis points--increases in offered rates appeared to put some upward pressure on unsecured money market rates, as anticipated, and the offered rate continued to provide a soft floor for secured rates. Changes in the spread between the rate paid on reserves and the ON RRP offered rate did not appear to affect the volume of activity in the federal funds market. While the tests of ON RRPs had been informative, the staff suggested that additional testing could further improve understanding of how this supplementary tool could be used to achieve greater control of the federal funds rate during policy normalization. Accordingly, participants discussed a draft resolution to extend the Desk's authority to conduct the ON RRP exercise for 12 months beyond the expiration of the current authorization on January 30, 2015. It was noted that a one-year extension to what had been a one-year testing program was a practical step and signaled nothing about either the timing of the start of policy normalization or how long an ON RRP facility might be needed.

Following the discussion of the extension of ON RRP test operations, the Committee unanimously approved the following resolution:

"The Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) authorizes the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to conduct a series of overnight reverse repurchase operations involving U.S. government securities for the purpose of further assessing the appropriate structure of such operations in supporting the implementation of monetary policy during normalization. The reverse repurchase operations authorized by this resolution shall be (i) conducted at an offering rate that may vary from zero to five basis points; (ii) for an overnight term or such longer term as is warranted to accommodate weekend, holiday, and similar trading conventions; (iii) subject to a per-counterparty limit of up to $30 billion per day; (iv) subject to an overall size limit of up to $300 billion per day; and (v) awarded to all submitters (A) at the specified offering rate if the sum of the bids received is less than or equal to the overall size limit, or (B) at the stop-out rate, determined by evaluating bids in ascending order by submitted rate up to the point at which the total quantity of bids equals the overall size limit, with all bids below this rate awarded in full at the stop-out rate and all bids at the stop-out rate awarded on a pro rata basis, if the sum of the counterparty offers received is greater than the overall size limit. The Chair must approve any change in the offering rate within the range specified in (i) and any changes to the per-counterparty and overall size limits subject to the limits specified in (iii) and (iv). The System Open Market Account manager will notify the FOMC in advance about any changes to the offering rate, per-counterparty limit, or overall size limit applied to operations. These operations shall be authorized for one additional year beyond the previously authorized end date--that is, through January 29, 2016."

By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Desk's domestic transactions over the intermeeting period. There were no intervention operations in foreign currencies for the System's account over the intermeeting period.

The Board meeting concluded at the end of the discussion of developments in financial markets and the Federal Reserve's balance sheet.