Over the intermeeting period, market participants became a bit more optimistic about U.S. economic prospects while also responding to economic and policy developments abroad. The sharp decline in oil prices weighed on inflation compensation and left a mixed imprint on other asset markets. On net, yields on longer-term Treasury securities fell, corporate bond spreads widened, equity prices were little changed, and the foreign exchange value of the dollar appreciated.

Economic data releases reinforced the views of market participants that the U.S. economic recovery continued to gain momentum. In addition, investors appeared to read the October FOMC statement as suggesting a slightly less accommodative path for future monetary policy than they had previously expected.

Results from the December Survey of Primary Dealers indicated that the dealers' expectations for the timing of the first increase in the federal funds target range and the subsequent policy path were little changed from the October survey. The average probability distribution of the expected date of liftoff continued to imply that the most likely date would be around the middle of 2015, with the distribution having narrowed slightly compared with the previous survey.

Longer-term nominal Treasury yields declined significantly, on balance, over the intermeeting period. Measures of inflation compensation based on Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities and on inflation swaps decreased, reportedly reflecting, in part, the decline in oil prices and increased concerns about global economic growth.

Broad U.S. equity price indexes were about unchanged over the intermeeting period. Option-implied volatility for one-month returns on the S&P 500 index--the VIX--rose sharply late in the period to levels close to those in mid-October. Investment- and speculative-grade corporate bond spreads widened over the period. Spreads on speculative-grade bonds for energy-related firms rose substantially because of the pronounced decline in oil prices.

Business financing flows were robust over the intermeeting period. Gross bond issuance by nonfinancial corporations was the strongest in more than a year. Nonfinancial commercial paper outstanding expanded noticeably in November, more than compensating for a slowdown in October. Commercial and industrial loans on banks' books continued to expand briskly. In addition, issuance of both leveraged loans and collateralized loan obligations were strong in October and November.

Financing for commercial real estate (CRE) remained broadly available. CRE loans on banks' books expanded at a moderate pace in October and November, and issuance of commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS) was strong. According to the December Senior Credit Officer Opinion Survey on Dealer Financing Terms, broker-dealers had eased somewhat all of the terms on which they finance CMBS for most-favored clients.

Measures of residential mortgage lending conditions were little changed over the intermeeting period. Credit conditions for mortgages remained tight for borrowers with less-than-pristine credit. Interest rates on 30-year fixed-rate mortgages declined, consistent with the moves in longer-term Treasury yields. Refinancing activity was subdued.

Financing conditions in consumer credit markets generally stayed accommodative. Auto and student loan balances expanded robustly in October, and revolving credit balances increased at a moderate pace. Issuance of consumer asset-backed securities was strong in the fourth quarter.

Reflecting divergent economic and monetary policy prospects in the United States and abroad, the dollar appreciated substantially against most currencies over the intermeeting period. The dollar moved up significantly against the yen as the Bank of Japan expanded its asset purchase program as well as against the currencies of oil exporters as oil prices declined. Over the period, market participants seemed to conclude that monetary policy in Europe was likely to be put on a more accommodative path, and 10-year yields in Germany and the United Kingdom declined further. As German yields fell to new record lows, spreads of most euro-area peripheral bonds over those yields narrowed. Changes in stock prices abroad were mixed, on net, over the intermeeting period: There were large increases in Japan and China along with large decreases in oil-exporting countries, such as Canada, Mexico, and Russia.

Late in the intermeeting period, following the sharp fall in oil prices, the Russian ruble depreciated rapidly and substantially, prompting the Russian central bank, which had already raised its policy rate in early November, to raise the rate twice more in five days, with the most recent increase following an unscheduled policy meeting on December 15.