The information available at the time of the January 31­–February 1 meeting indicated that labor market conditions remained tight in December, with the unemployment rate at a historical low. Consumer price inflation—as measured by the 12-month percent change in the price index for personal consumption expenditures (PCE)—continued to step down in November and December but was still elevated. Real gross domestic product (GDP) increased at a solid pace in the fourth quarter of last year.

Total nonfarm payroll employment increased solidly in December, al­though at a slower pace than in the previous two months. The unemployment rate moved back down to 3.5 percent in December. The unemployment rate for African Americans was unchanged, and the unemployment rate for Hispanics ticked up; the unemployment rates for both groups remained above the aggregate measure. The aggregate measures of both the labor force participation rate and the employment-to-population ratio edged up. The private-sector job openings rate, as measured by the Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey, was flat in November and remained high.

Measures of nominal wage growth slowed at the end of last year but continued to be elevated. The three-month change in the employment cost index (ECI) of hourly compensation in the private sector slowed to a 4.0 percent annual rate in December, while the three-month change measure of average hourly earnings (AHE) for all employees eased to an annual rate of 4.1 percent. Over the 12 months ending in December, the ECI increased 5.1 percent, and AHE rose 4.6 percent.

Consumer price inflation eased in November and December but remained elevated. Total PCE price inflation was 5.0 percent over the 12 months ending in December, 1.1 percentage points lower than the October figure. Core PCE price inflation, which excludes changes in consumer energy prices and many consumer food prices, was 4.4 percent over the 12 months ending in December, down 0.7 percentage point from its October reading. The trimmed mean measure of 12-month PCE price inflation constructed by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas was 4.4 percent in December, 0.3 percentage point lower than in October. The latest survey-based readings on longer-term inflation expectations from the University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York's Survey of Consumer Expectations remained within the range of their values reported in recent months, while near-term measures of inflation expectations from these surveys moved down along with actual inflation.

Al­though real GDP expanded at an annual rate of 2.9 percent in the fourth quarter, real private domestic final purchases (PDFP)—which includes PCE, residential investment, and business fixed investment—increased at a subdued annual rate of 0.2 percent. Real GDP growth was bolstered especially by a large gain in inventory investment and a notable contribution from net exports, as imports fell more than exports. Both inventories and net exports are volatile categories in aggregate spending. Regarding production, U.S. manufacturing output declined sizably in both November and December.

Foreign economic growth slowed in the fourth quarter, weighed down by the COVID-19-related slowdown in China and repercussions of Russia's war against Ukraine. Weaker global demand and a rebalancing from goods to services also resulted in a pronounced slowdown in manufacturing, which weighed on activity in emerging Asia. In China, the pivot away from its zero-COVID policy appears to have resulted in a rapid surge in virus cases late in the year, but also in a rebound in activity as restrictions were rapidly removed. In Europe, the slowdown in economic growth was tempered by mild winter weather, which also prompted further declines in energy prices. A decline in retail energy as well as food prices contributed to an easing in headline consumer price inflation in many foreign economies. With core inflation remaining elevated amid tight labor markets, however, many central banks continued to tighten monetary policy.