The manager pro tem turned first to a review of U.S. financial market developments. Market participants generally expected U.S. economic growth to moderate this year, al­though there was a wide dispersion in views about the extent of a potential slowdown. Market participants interpreted incoming data as pointing to moderating inflation risks. Against this backdrop, market participants judged that the FOMC would likely slow the pace of rate increases further at the current meeting, and respondents to the Desk's Survey of Primary Dealers and Survey of Market Participants widely expected the Committee to implement a 1/4 percentage point increase in the target range for the federal funds rate. Survey respondents assessed that uncertainty around the likely peak level of the policy rate narrowed relative to the comparable results from the December surveys and, on average, placed significant probability on a target federal funds rate range close to 5 percent. A significant share of survey respondents anticipated that the Committee would hold the policy rate stable for much of 2023.

Moderating inflation in the United States and improving global growth prospects lifted market sentiment. While most Desk survey respondents expected subdued growth or a mild recession in 2023, market participants continued to see notable uncertainties ahead, including prospects for a deeper downturn or the potential for more persistent inflation.

Regarding the international outlook, signs of a faster reopening in China and a less severe downturn in Europe eased concerns about global growth, contributing to a depreciation in the exchange value of the dollar and supporting optimism about emerging market economies. Narrowing interest rate differentials between the United States and other advanced foreign economies also contributed to dollar depreciation, as some foreign central bank communications suggested a need for further monetary policy tightening to address inflation pressures. In addition, the Bank of Japan unexpectedly widened its yield curve control band at its December meeting to address market functioning issues in the market for Japanese government bonds. Over the period, some other central banks communicated that they were at or near a point where it would be appropriate to pause policy rate increases and assess the effects of cumulative policy tightening.

The manager pro tem turned next to a discussion of money markets and Federal Reserve operations. Money market rates were stable over the period, with the year-end passing smoothly. As expected, balances in the overnight reverse repurchase agreement (ON RRP) facility increased at year-end but quickly retraced. Market participants generally expected usage of the ON RRP facility to continue a downward trend in 2023, moderating the decline in reserve balances as the Federal Reserve's holdings of securities continue to run off. Should transitory pressures occur in money markets over the course of the year, the manager pro tem noted that the standing repurchase agreement (repo) facility and discount window would be available to help support effective monetary policy implementation.

The manager noted that, over coming months, developments affecting the Treasury General Account (TGA) and Treasury financing could influence money market conditions. An increase in TGA balances associated with April individual tax receipts could result in a temporary decline in reserve balances. In subsequent months, uncertainties associated with the debt limit could also be important. In particular, the Treasury could increase bill issuance to rebuild TGA balances once the debt limit is lifted, reducing reserves and potentially lifting money market rates. The manager pro tem noted that in recent months, investors in the ON RRP facility had responded to small increases in money market rates by shifting balances into private investments, and that reductions in ON RRP volumes may help smooth adjustments in money markets.

By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Desk's domestic transactions over the intermeeting period. There were no intervention operations in foreign currencies for the System's account during the intermeeting period.