The forecast for the U.S. economy prepared by the staff for this FOMC meeting had a somewhat higher path for the level of real GDP and a modestly lower path for the unemployment rate than in the December projection, reflecting both the recent data and a small additional boost to output from a lower projected path for the dollar. Al­though recent data indicated that real GDP growth in the fourth quarter of 2022 was stronger than expected, real PDFP growth was weaker than previously forecast, and the large, unexpected boost to GDP growth from inventory investment was not projected to persist. In part reflecting the lagged effects of previous monetary policy tightening, the staff still projected real GDP growth to slow markedly this year and the labor market to soften. The staff forecast continued to include a pickup in real GDP growth starting next year, al­though projected output growth in 2024 and 2025 remains below the staff's estimate of potential output growth. The level of real output was expected to move down to the staff's estimate of potential near the end of 2025. Likewise, the unemployment rate was projected to gradually move up to the staff's estimate of its natural rate at the end of 2025.

On a four-quarter change basis, total PCE price inflation was forecast to be 2.8 percent in 2023, and core inflation was expected to be 3.2 percent, both lower than in the December projection. With the effects of supply–demand imbalances in goods markets expected to further unwind and labor and product markets projected to become less tight, the staff continued to forecast that inflation would decline further over 2024 and 2025. On a four-quarter change basis, core goods inflation was projected to move down further this year and then remain subdued, housing services inflation was expected to peak later this year and then move down, and core nonhousing services inflation was forecast to slow as nominal wage growth eased. With steep declines in consumer energy prices and a substantial moderation in food price inflation expected for this year, total inflation was projected to step down markedly this year and then to track core inflation over the following two years. In 2025, both total and core PCE price inflation were expected to be near 2 percent.

The sluggish growth in real private domestic spending expected this year and the persistently tight financial conditions were seen as tilting the risks to the downside around the baseline projection for real economic activity, and the staff still viewed the possibility of a recession sometime this year as a plausible alternative to the baseline. Moreover, with core PCE price inflation having slowed in recent months, along with the cumulative upward revisions to the core inflation projection over the past year and the expected softening in economic growth, the staff now viewed the risks around the baseline forecast for inflation this year as balanced. For beyond this year, the staff continued to view the risks around the inflation projection as skewed to the upside, reflecting concerns about the potential persistence of inflation.