Over the intermeeting period, the market-implied federal funds rate path was little changed for 2023 but moderately moved down further out. Nominal Treasury yields were little changed, while swaps-based inflation compensation measures fell notably. Stock market indexes were slightly higher, and market volatility declined but remained slightly elevated. Businesses and households continued to face elevated borrowing costs. Credit quality remained strong overall, al­though there were some signs of deterioration for consumer loans.

The market-implied federal funds rate path for 2023 was little changed, on net, during the intermeeting period but fell moderately beyond mid-2024. On net, nominal Treasury yields were roughly unchanged, and swaps-market-implied inflation compensation measures fell notably.

Broad stock price indexes ended the intermeeting period only slightly higher despite sizable fluctuations. Equity prices fell sharply following the December FOMC statement but recovered over the remainder of the period in response to data releases. The VIX—the one-month option-implied volatility on the S&P 500—decreased somewhat but remained slightly above the median range of its historical distribution. Spreads on investment-grade and high-yield corporate bonds narrowed somewhat, on net, over the intermeeting period, while spreads on municipal bonds narrowed substantially.

Conditions in short-term funding markets remained stable over the intermeeting period, with the December increase in the target range for the federal funds rate and the associated increases in the Federal Reserve's administered rates passing through quickly to overnight money market rates. In secured markets, repo rates were roughly the same as the ON RRP offering rate but continued to occasionally print slightly higher around days with Treasury bill and coupon settlements. Daily take-up in the ON RRP facility remained elevated, reflecting continued elevated assets under management (AUM) for money market mutual funds (MMFs), ongoing uncertainty around the policy path, and limited supply of alternative investments such as Treasury bills. Net yields on MMFs rose further over the intermeeting period, mostly passing through the increase in administered rates. Bank deposit rates gradually increased but continued to lag cumulative increases in the federal funds rate.

Over the intermeeting period, investor perceptions of an improved economic outlook in China and Europe contributed to increases in foreign risky asset prices and weighed on the exchange value of the dollar. Global equity indexes rose, supported in part by lower European natural gas prices and China's decision to abandon its zero-COVID policy. Sovereign yields increased notably in the euro area and Japan, reflecting more-restrictive-than-expected communications from the European Central Bank and the Bank of Japan's decision to widen its yield curve control target band, respectively. In contrast, yields in other major advanced foreign economies were little changed on net. The staff's broad dollar index declined over the intermeeting period, with larger declines against emerging market economy (EME) currencies amid significant inflows into EME-focused investment funds in January on improved investor sentiment. Narrowing yield differentials between the United States and some advanced foreign economies also contributed to the depreciation of the dollar.

In domestic credit markets, businesses and households continued to face elevated borrowing costs. Yields for corporate bonds declined, while borrowing costs for leveraged loans were little changed at elevated levels. Bank interest rates for commercial and industrial (C&I) loans continued to trend upward in the fourth quarter. Yields on municipal bonds declined during the intermeeting period but remained above their historical average. Residential mortgage rates were little changed over the intermeeting period and remained well above their levels in the previous tightening cycle, notwithstanding the decline from their peak in early November. Interest rates on existing credit cards continued to increase in recent months, and interest rates on new auto loans also rose through mid-January.

Credit remained broadly available for businesses and households with strong credit quality but remained tight for lower-rated borrowers. Lending standards tightened further for bank-dependent borrowers. Issuance of corporate bonds was subdued in December before picking up somewhat in January. New launches of leveraged loans were notably subdued in December and January, likely reflecting soft investor demand and higher reference rates on floating-rate loans.

In the January Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices (SLOOS), banks reported having tightened C&I and commercial real estate (CRE) lending standards over the previous three months. Al­though C&I loans at banks continued to expand through December, they decelerated relative to earlier in the year, in line with tighter lending standards and weaker demand for C&I loans over the fourth quarter. CRE loan growth on domestic banks' balance sheets remained robust in the fourth quarter. Meanwhile, issuance of commercial mortgage-backed securities remained slow in November and December, amid high base interest rates and spreads. Some tightening in lending conditions was also evident for small businesses, with the share of small firms reporting that it was more difficult to obtain credit compared with three months earlier continuing to trend up through December.

Credit was broadly available in the residential mortgage market for high-credit-score borrowers who met standard conforming loan criteria. Credit availability for households with lower credit scores was considerably tighter, though comparable to levels prevailing before the pandemic. Purchase mortgage applications and refinance applications were both little changed over the intermeeting period. Home equity line of credit (HELOC) balances at banks continued to grow through the fourth quarter, on net, potentially reflecting homeowners using HELOCs as a preferred way of extracting home equity in the presence of high current mortgage rates. In the January SLOOS, banks reported tighter standards for all consumer loans. Even so, total credit card balances increased at a solid pace in November, while auto loans grew modestly.

Overall, credit quality remained strong, al­though there was some deterioration for credit card and auto loan borrowers and some predictors of future credit quality worsened a bit further. The volume of corporate bond rating downgrades outpaced upgrades in December, al­though the level of downgrades remained moderate. Leveraged loans experienced notable net rating downgrades in December, but the pace moderated in January. Default rates on corporate bonds and leveraged loans remained low. Measures of expected default probabilities for corporate bonds and leveraged loans remained elevated relative to their historical distributions. The credit quality of businesses that borrow from banks remained sound, on balance, al­though, in the January SLOOS, banks reported expecting a deterioration in the quality of business loans in their portfolio over 2023. Delinquencies on small business loans continued to edge up in November but remained low relative to historical levels.

The credit quality of households also remained strong, on balance, despite some signs of deterioration. Delinquencies for Federal Housing Administration mortgages increased slightly, but overall mortgage delinquency rates were still near pre-pandemic lows. Delinquency rates for credit cards and auto loans continued to rise during the third quarter. While delinquency rates on credit cards were still relatively low, those on auto loans rose above pre-pandemic levels. In the January SLOOS, banks reported expecting a further deterioration in the quality of household loans in 2023, especially for consumer loans.

The staff provided an update on its assessment of the stability of the financial system and, on balance, characterized the financial vulnerabilities of the U.S. financial system as moderate. The staff judged that asset valuation pressures remained notable. In particular, the staff noted that measures of valuations in both residential and commercial property markets remained high, and that the potential for large declines in property prices remained greater than usual. In addition, the forward price-to-earnings ratio for S&P 500 firms remained above its median value despite the decline in equity prices over the past year. The staff assessed that valuation pressures had eased for corporate bonds and leveraged loans, as spreads in both markets had increased from recent lows.

The staff assessed that vulnerabilities associated with household and business leverage remained moderate, noting that al­though measures of business leverage were at or near a historically high level, the ability of firms to service their debt has kept pace with rising debt loads and interest rates. Household borrowing rose for borrowers with prime credit scores but declined for households with lower credit scores. Vulnerabilities associated with financial leverage also remained moderate. In particular, risk-based capital ratios for banks increased slightly, a staff measure of leverage at life insurance companies remained relatively flat in recent quarters, and leverage among private credit funds has remained steady for several years. While measures of hedge fund leverage have decreased since the pandemic shock, the staff noted that leverage among the largest funds was on track to return to 2019 levels.

Vulnerabilities associated with funding risks were characterized as moderate. The rising rate environment has prompted inflows into prime retail MMFs, while AUM at prime institutional funds, which have proved more sensitive to turmoil in the past, have grown much less. Assets in open-end mutual funds that invest in less liquid instruments like bank loans or high-yield corporate bonds have declined notably over the past year. In response to vulnerabilities at MMFs and open-end mutual funds, the Securities and Exchange Commission has proposed rules to make these funds more resilient.