Committee participants began discussions related to their review of the Federal Reserve's monetary policy framework. This review is focused on two specific areas: the Committee's Statement on Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy, which presents the Committee's approach to the conduct of monetary policy, and the Committee's policy communication practices. The Committee's 2 percent longer-run inflation goal will be retained and is not a focus of the review.

In support of these discussions, staff briefings provided a retrospective on the Committee's 2019–20 framework review and summarized the experience abroad in conducting reviews of monetary policy frameworks. The staff presentation began by recapping the creation and evolution of the Committee's Statement on Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy and the context of the Committee's 2019–20 review. The adoption of the statement in 2012 introduced the Committee's 2 percent inflation target and codified long-standing practices followed by the Committee and, as such, was an important step in improving the transparency, accountability, and predictability of U.S. monetary policymaking. The launch of the 2019–20 review was motivated in part by a desire to evaluate the experience of the Global Financial Crisis and its aftermath. During this period, inflation had run persistently below the Committee's 2 percent objective, even as the unemployment rate and interest rates remained low. These developments indicated a greater risk that the federal funds rate would be constrained by its effective lower bound (ELB) more often in the future, posing challenges to the achievement of the Committee's dual-mandate goals over the medium term. The staff summarized the scope and components of the 2019–20 review, including its outreach to a broad range of individuals and groups, and the rationale behind the changes made to the statement at the end of the review.

In summarizing the international experience, the staff noted that occasional reviews of monetary policy frameworks were seen as useful in adapting to evolving economic environments, promoting transparency, and fostering public understanding and, therefore, were becoming the norm in advanced economies. Reviews abroad had covered various aspects related to monetary policy goals, strategies, tools, communications, forecasting, and governance, with some of the recent reviews giving particular attention to topics such as the experience of the COVID–19 pandemic, the ensuing global inflation episode, and the conduct and communication of monetary policy in times of unusual uncertainty.

Participants viewed the statement as having played an important role in building a common understanding among policymakers of the congressionally mandated monetary policy goals and of their monetary policy strategy. The statement and other means of policy communication also figured importantly in conveying that understanding to the public and helping to anchor inflation expectations, thereby supporting the effective transmission of monetary policy. Participants indicated that they were looking forward to their discussions at upcoming meetings and to hearing a range of perspectives at various Fed Listens events as well as at a planned research conference, and that they were approaching the review with open minds.

Participants noted that the economic consequences of the COVID–19 pandemic were largely unforeseen at the time of the 2019–20 review and that the current economic environment differed greatly from the period leading up to that review, which was characterized in part by persistently low inflation and interest rates. In light of the experience of the past five years, participants assessed that it was important to consider potential revisions to the statement, with particular attention to some of the elements introduced in 2020. Participants highlighted as areas of consideration the statement's focus on the risks to the economy posed by the ELB, the approach of mitigating shortfalls from maximum employment, and the approach of aiming to achieve inflation moderately above 2 percent following periods of persistently below-target inflation. Participants emphasized the need for the FOMC's monetary policy framework to be robust to a wide range of economic circumstances. They noted that economic uncertainty—including about the values of the longer-run neutral policy rate, the economy's potential growth rate, and the level of maximum employment—would remain an important factor affecting their decisionmaking. Participants also mentioned aspects of the statement that they thought should continue to be emphasized—including the Committee's firm commitment to achieving maximum employment and 2 percent inflation, as well as the importance of keeping longer-term inflation expectations well anchored.

Participants expected that their discussions related to the framework review would continue at upcoming meetings. They expected the review to wrap up by late summer and intended to report the outcomes of the review to the public.