The manager turned first to a review of developments in financial markets. Over the intermeeting period, broad equity price indexes had declined moderately, credit spreads had remained very tight, and the trade-weighted value of the dollar had risen slightly. In considering the expected path of the federal funds rate, the manager noted that the modal policy rate path implied by options prices had not changed appreciably on net over the intermeeting period and was broadly consistent with a single quarter-point lowering of the target range for the federal funds rate taking place during 2025. The average rate path implied by futures prices was also little changed and was above the corresponding median rates in the December 2024 Summary of Economic Projections. The modal path implied by the Open Market Desk's Survey of Market Expectations shifted up somewhat over the intermeeting period, with respondents generally judging that policy rate reductions would occur later than previously assessed, and was broadly consistent with market-implied paths at horizons up to early 2026. Beyond that period, however, the survey-based path was notably below the market-implied path. This discrepancy likely partly reflected positive market risk premiums as well as survey biases. In their expectations of Federal Reserve balance sheet policy, survey respondents on average saw the process of runoff concluding by mid-2025, slightly later than they had previously expected.

The manager next considered the recent behavior of Treasury yields. Longer-term nominal Treasury yields had risen sharply following the Committee's December meeting and the release of the unexpectedly strong December payrolls report. Subsequently, a partial retracing of this increase took place after consumer price index (CPI) data indicated that prices rose more slowly than expected in December. Over the intermeeting period, longer-dated Treasury yields rose 15 to 20 basis points, while shorter-dated yields were little changed. The manager discussed staff analysis that had aimed at decomposing the increase of nearly 100 basis points in longer-term Treasury yields that had taken place since mid-September 2024. That analysis suggested an upward revision in financial markets' evaluation of the path of the real policy rate required to achieve the Committee's goals, especially at longer horizons. Nevertheless, much of the increase in real yields was in real term premiums, likely reflecting uncertainty about the policy rate trajectory as well as a number of other factors. The manager noted that measures of inflation compensation had generally risen slightly. However, both survey measures of inflation expectations and pricing in the Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities market remained broadly consistent with the anticipation that inflation would return to the Committee's 2 percent inflation objective.

With respect to money markets, the manager noted that December's quarter-point lowering of the target range for the federal funds rate had been fully passed through to other short-term interest rates. In addition, the 5 basis point technical adjustment to the overnight reverse repurchase agreement (ON RRP) offering rate implemented in December appeared to have been transmitted nearly in full to repurchase agreement (repo) rates. Money market conditions had been orderly over year-end, with the technical adjustment to the ON RRP offering rate directly contributing to a lower rate environment by keeping repo rates below the values that would have otherwise prevailed. Throughout the week of year-end, the Desk conducted standing repo facility (SRF) auctions each morning, in addition to the regular afternoon auctions. Although there was no take-up, market contacts suggested that the morning auctions may also have helped contain year-end pressures. The manager noted that morning SRF auctions may be conducted again in the future. On December 26, a considerable volume of activity had taken place in the noncentrally cleared segment of the repo market, in which the SRF operates, at rates above the SRF rate. The manager stated that, in the future, the Desk may consider possible ways to improve the efficacy of the facility in that market segment.

The manager observed that usage of the ON RRP facility increased as expected at year-end but had declined on net over the intermeeting period. The manager also noted that a range of indicators continued to suggest that reserves had remained abundant over the intermeeting period. However, the manager cautioned that the debt limit situation may cloud the signals provided by the indicators. In addition, reserves might decline quickly upon resolution of the debt limit and, at the current pace of balance sheet runoff, might potentially reach levels below those viewed by the Committee as appropriate.

Next, the deputy manager briefed policymakers on possible alternative strategies that the Committee might follow with regard to purchases of Treasury securities in the secondary market after the eventual conclusion of the process of balance sheet runoff. These strategies would further implement the policy laid out in the Committee's Principles and Plans for Reducing the Size of the Federal Reserve's Balance Sheet. The briefing outlined a few illustrative scenarios; under each scenario, principal payments received from agency debt and agency mortgage‑backed securities (MBS) holdings would be directed toward Treasury securities via secondary-market purchases. The scenarios presented corresponded to different trajectories of the holdings of Treasury securities in the SOMA. Under all scenarios considered, the maturity composition of Treasury holdings in the SOMA portfolio moved into closer alignment with the maturity composition of the outstanding stock of Treasury securities. The scenarios differed on how quickly this alignment would be achieved and, correspondingly, on the assumed increase over coming years in the share of Treasury bills held in the SOMA portfolio.

By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Desk's domestic transactions over the intermeeting period. There were no intervention operations in foreign currencies for the System's account during the intermeeting period.