The information available at the time of the meeting indicated that real gross domestic product (GDP) rose at a solid pace in 2024. After a period of considerable rebalancing, labor market conditions had stabilized, and the unemployment rate remained low. Consumer price inflation remained somewhat elevated.

Total consumer price inflation—as measured by the 12-month change in the price index for personal consumption expenditures (PCE)—was 2.4 percent in November, down from its year-earlier pace of 2.7 percent. Core PCE price inflation, which excludes changes in consumer energy prices and many consumer food prices, was 2.8 percent in November, down from 3.2 percent a year ago. In December, the 12-month change in the CPI was 2.9 percent and core CPI inflation was 3.2 percent; both were below their year-earlier rates. Based on the CPI and the producer price index, the staff estimated that total PCE price inflation would be reported as 2.6 percent over the 12 months ending in December and that core PCE price inflation would be 2.8 percent.

Recent data suggested that labor market conditions remained solid and that the labor market was not especially tight. Average monthly gains for nonfarm payrolls over the fourth quarter were slightly higher than their third-quarter pace. The unemployment rate edged down to 4.1 percent in December, while the labor force participation rate was unchanged and the employment-to-population ratio moved up slightly. The unemployment rates for African Americans and for Hispanics moved down but remained higher than the rates for Asians and for Whites. The ratio of job vacancies to unemployed workers edged up to 1.2 in December, its average over 2019, and the quits rate fell back to 1.9 percent and remained well below its 2019 average. Average hourly earnings for all employees rose 3.9 percent over the 12 months ending in December, down from 4.3 percent a year ago.

Available data indicated that real GDP rose at a solid pace in the fourth quarter. Real private domestic final purchases, which comprises PCE and private fixed investment and which often provides a better signal than GDP of underlying economic momentum, appeared to have risen faster than real GDP in the fourth quarter, led by continued strength in consumer spending. By contrast, monthly trade data were volatile but overall pointed to a step-down in both export and import growth relative to the third quarter.

The pace of foreign economic activity appeared to have moderated at the end of last year. Indicators suggested that in both the euro area and Mexico, economic growth had slowed notably in the fourth quarter amid lackluster manufacturing activity and subdued private consumption. By contrast, Chinese growth had picked up, in large part because of policy stimulus, and elsewhere in emerging Asia the pace of activity looked to have remained solid, supported by strong global demand for high-tech manufacturing goods.

Inflation abroad continued to ease. In most advanced foreign economies (AFEs), headline inflation hovered near target levels, mainly reflecting the rapid pass-through of lower energy prices in the second half of 2024. Even so, services price inflation remained elevated in some of these economies, such as Germany. In China, inflation remained close to zero, partly reflecting lower food prices. By contrast, in some Latin American countries, most notably Brazil, inflation continued to increase, in part spurred by currency depreciation.

Many foreign central banks eased policy during the intermeeting period, including the Bank of Canada, the European Central Bank, and the Swiss National Bank among the AFEs, and the central banks of Colombia, Indonesia, and Mexico among the emerging market economies (EMEs). In contrast, amid improving economic conditions, the Bank of Japan increased its policy rate, taking a further step in gradually removing policy accommodation.