The market-implied path of the federal funds rate over the next year was little changed on net over the intermeeting period. Yields on shorter-term nominal Treasury securities edged down, but longer-term rates rose moderately. The increase in longer-term yields appeared to be partly attributable to higher term premiums. Measures of inflation compensation over the near term moved up, but measures of longer-term inflation compensation remained at levels consistent with inflation returning over time to the Committee's 2 percent objective.

Broad equity price indexes were little changed on net, while measures of the equity risk premium remained low, and corporate bond spreads remained compressed by historical standards. The VIX—a forward-looking measure of near-term equity market volatility—was also roughly unchanged on net and remained at a moderate level by historical standards.

Foreign financial market moves over the intermeeting period mainly reflected developments in the U.S., including trade policy news and the relative strength of the U.S. economic data releases during the period. The broad dollar index increased slightly on net. Longer-term AFE yields edged higher, reflecting in part spillovers from higher U.S. yields. Stock price indexes increased in most foreign countries, with the notable exception of China, in which equity prices declined moderately, in part reflecting weaker-than-expected forward-looking manufacturing indicators. Capital outflows from emerging markets continued, and several EME central banks drew down their foreign exchange reserves, including their holdings of U.S. Treasury securities, to resist currency depreciation pressures.

Conditions in U.S. short-term funding markets remained generally stable over the intermeeting period, with the lowering of the target range for the federal funds rate in December fully passing through to both secured and unsecured reference rates. Rates in secured markets exhibited temporary, and typical, upward pressure around year-end. Excluding the year-end period, rates in secured markets declined somewhat relative to the effective federal funds rate, likely reflecting the effects of the nearly full pass-through of December's technical adjustment to the ON RRP offering rate and of declining bill issuance. ON RRP usage increased around year-end but declined slightly on net over the intermeeting period.

In domestic credit markets, borrowing costs for households and most businesses remained elevated. Rates on 30-year fixed-rate conforming residential mortgages rose. Interest rates for credit cards and new auto loans declined but remained elevated relative to their historical ranges. Meanwhile, interest rates on commercial and industrial (C&I) loans and small business loans remained elevated. Yields rose for an array of fixed-income securities, including investment-grade corporate bonds and senior commercial MBS tranches, consistent with movements in long-term Treasury yields.

Financing through capital markets and nonbank lenders remained broadly available for public corporations and for large and midsize private corporations. With respect to smaller firms, however, credit availability remained relatively tight. Issuance of corporate bonds and leveraged loans moderated toward year-end, likely reflecting seasonal factors. Regarding bank credit, banks in the January Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices (SLOOS) reported leaving their C&I loan standards basically unchanged on net over the fourth quarter. 3 Meanwhile, growth in C&I loan balances picked up from modest levels. Banks in the January SLOOS reported tighter lending standards for all commercial real estate (CRE) loan categories. Consistent with tight standards, growth in CRE loans on banks' books remained subdued in the fourth quarter.

Credit remained available for most households, though standards appear to have tightened somewhat for lower-credit-score borrowers. Growth in credit card loan balances at banks picked up in the fourth quarter, but issuance of new credit cards to nonprime borrowers continued to decline. In the residential mortgage market, credit remained easily available for high-credit-score borrowers but tightened slightly in November and December for lower-score borrowers. In the January SLOOS, respondents on net indicated that standards tightened for credit cards, eased for auto loans, and were about unchanged for most residential mortgages.

Credit quality remained solid for large and midsize firms, most home mortgage borrowers, and municipalities but continued to deteriorate in other sectors. The credit performance of corporate bonds and leveraged loans showed some signs of deterioration but remained generally stable. Delinquency rates on loans to small businesses ticked down but remained elevated. Credit quality in the CRE market deteriorated further, driven largely by office and multifamily loans. Regarding household credit quality, the delinquency rate on Federal Housing Administration mortgages edged up in November and remained elevated relative to the past few years. In contrast, delinquency rates on most other mortgage loan types remained low. Delinquency rates for credit cards increased a bit further in the third quarter, while those for auto loans stayed about flat.

The staff provided an update on its assessment of the stability of the U.S. financial system and, on balance, continued to characterize the system's financial vulnerabilities as notable. The staff judged that asset valuation pressures were elevated. In contrast to valuations in equity, corporate debt, and residential real estate markets, CRE property prices have declined notably in recent years, though price indexes were about flat in the third quarter.

Vulnerabilities associated with business and household debt were characterized as moderate. Nonfinancial business leverage was elevated by historical standards, but the ability of publicly traded firms to service their debt remained strong, supported by robust earnings and the low interest rates that firms continued to enjoy on the portion of fixed-rate debt issued early in the pandemic. That said, the fraction of private firm debt having very low interest coverage ratios continued to increase, pointing to further deterioration in the balance sheets of riskier firms. Household balance sheets remained solid overall, as aggregate home equity remained high and delinquencies on mortgage loans continued to be low.

Vulnerabilities associated with leverage in the financial sector were characterized as notable. Regulatory capital ratios in the banking sector remained high; however, banks continued to hold large quantities of long-duration assets, leaving them more exposed than usual to an unexpected rise in longer-term interest rates. In the nonbank sector, leverage at hedge funds remained high.

Vulnerabilities associated with funding risks were characterized as moderate. Large nonglobal systemically important banks and regional banks reduced their reliance on uninsured deposits notably since the end of 2021. Though assets in prime money market funds had been growing recently, their size relative to GDP remained well below levels seen before 2016.