The information reviewed at this meeting suggested that economic activity was expanding strongly in the first quarter. Consumer spending was on track to rise at a robust pace, and business purchases of equipment and software picked up appreciably. Warm weather boosted housing construction in January and February, although sales of new homes dropped back and house prices decelerated slightly. Private payrolls advanced solidly in the first two months of the year. Headline consumer price inflation jumped in January but moderated in February as energy prices moved down. Core inflation remained contained.

Labor demand continued to increase in the first two months of 2006, as private nonfarm payroll employment showed large gains in both January and February. With favorable weather conditions, employment growth was especially brisk in the construction sector. Financial activities, business services, and nonbusiness services also posted solid payroll gains. Although the average workweek edged down in February, the level of aggregate hours for production and nonsupervisory workers was above its average for the fourth quarter of 2005. The unemployment rate continued to decline and averaged 4¾ percent over the first two months of the year. Several other labor market indicators also signaled a further tightening of labor market conditions.

Industrial production picked up in February after a modest decline in January. That pattern was attributable to swings in utilities output, as temperatures were historically warm early in the year before reverting to near seasonal norms in February. Excluding utilities, industrial production posted a sizable gain in January before flattening out in February, pointing to a solid rise in the first quarter. Mining output--which includes oil and natural gas extraction--slipped in February after registering robust gains in each of the previous three months. Manufacturing output was unchanged in February after a significant increase in January. The rate of capacity utilization in the manufacturing sector stood a bit above its long-run average.

Consumer spending appeared to have rebounded strongly in the first quarter. Motor vehicle purchases bounced back in late 2005 and early 2006 from the sluggish pace that followed the end of the past summer's "employee pricing" programs. Excluding motor vehicles, consumption spending was robust, supported by continuing improvement in the labor market and advances in wage and salary income. The annual raise in the pay of federal employees, cost-of-living adjustments to Social Security benefits and other transfer programs, and the initiation of the Medicare Prescription Drug Plan boosted the level of personal disposable income in January. Consumption was likely supported also by ongoing increases in home prices and gains in the stock market. Consumer confidence as measured by surveys remained consistent with moderate increases in consumer spending.

Housing activity had moderated somewhat from the robust pace of the past summer. Although the level of single-family housing starts was unusually high in January and February, much of this strength was likely the result of mild winter weather; new permit issuance extended the downward trajectory that began in October. After an unusual spike in January, multifamily housing starts dropped back in February to a rate well within their historical range. Sales of new homes fell in the first two months of the year, while sales of existing homes turned up in February for the first time since last August; both measures were well below their peaks of mid-2005. The stock of homes for sale was elevated compared with its range of the last several years. Mortgage applications continued to decline in February, and survey measures of homebuying attitudes also maintained their recent downward trend. Housing demand was likely damped by rising mortgage rates, which moved up further in late 2005 and early 2006. House price appreciation appeared to have slowed from the rapid pace of the summer, but price increases for both new and existing homes remained well within the elevated range that has prevailed in recent years.

Real outlays for equipment and software decelerated in the fourth quarter of 2005 but appeared to have gained strength in early 2006. This pattern reflected sizable swings in outlays for transportation equipment. The fundamentals underlying capital spending continued to be supportive, as business sector output expanded briskly, firms remained flush with funds, and relative price declines for high-tech equipment continued to push down its user cost. Although vacancy rates for nonresidential properties were well below the peaks reached in the first quarter of 2004, real spending on new construction had yet to gain traction. In contrast, outlays for drilling and mining structures continued to rise rapidly and appeared poised to increase further in the near term.

The book value of manufacturing and trade inventories excluding motor vehicles rose at a moderate pace in the fourth quarter of 2005, and inventories appeared to have continued to build in January. Much of the increase reflected rising prices of goods held, and real inventory accumulation was subdued. The inventory-sales ratio declined slightly in January, extending its long-run downward trend. Inventory stocks appeared to be well aligned with demand in most industries.

The U.S. international trade deficit rose in the fourth quarter and widened further in January, as gains in exports of goods and services were outweighed by a substantially larger rise in imports. Exports of industrial supplies, capital goods, and agricultural products picked up robustly in January, while the increase in imports was widespread across most product categories. Real GDP growth in foreign industrial economies was mixed in the fourth quarter, as economic activity slowed in the euro area and in Canada while the Japanese economy expanded briskly and growth in the United Kingdom firmed. Recent indicators of economic activity in developing economies were generally quite positive.

Readings on core consumer price inflation were favorable in recent months. Nonetheless, the overall consumer price index edged up in February after registering a large increase in January that was driven mostly by a spike in energy prices. While prices of food and core items recorded only modest increases in February, energy prices fell back amid increases in oil inventories and unseasonably mild temperatures since the latter part of December. Weekly data for March, however, indicated that gasoline prices rose sharply. Prices of capital equipment inched up in February after a more substantial gain in January. Nevertheless, prices of capital equipment decelerated over the past twelve months. Higher energy prices still seemed to be passing through to the prices of a number of core intermediate materials, although such increases were more moderate than those observed in the immediate aftermath of the hurricanes last autumn. The increase in the employment cost index in the fourth quarter of 2005 was relatively modest. Compensation per hour in the nonfarm business sector, after having increased substantially in the third quarter, was estimated to have risen somewhat less in the fourth quarter. Preliminary survey measures of short-term inflation expectations in March edged up, but longer-term measures remained steady.

At its January meeting, the Federal Open Market Committee decided to raise the target level of the federal funds rate 25 basis points, to 4½ percent. In its accompanying statement, the Committee indicated that, although recent economic data had been uneven, the expansion in economic activity appeared solid. Core inflation had stayed relatively low in recent months, and longer-term inflation expectations had remained contained. Nevertheless, the Committee noted that possible increases in resource utilization as well as elevated energy prices had the potential to add to inflation pressures. In these circumstances, the Committee judged that some further policy firming may be needed to keep the risks to the attainment of both sustainable economic growth and price stability roughly in balance but reiterated that it would respond to changes in economic prospects as needed to foster its objectives.