In their discussion of the economic situation and outlook, meeting participants saw the economy as having rebounded strongly from the slowdown in the fourth quarter of last year, with aggregate spending and employment expanding briskly in the current quarter. Growth was expected to moderate to a more sustainable pace later this year. The ongoing cooling in the housing market would act to restrain residential construction and growth in consumption, but business and household confidence and supportive financial conditions would help to foster growth in employment and incomes, keeping consumption and investment on a solid upward track. Several meeting participants observed that, although the economy's sustainable potential output could not be observed directly or estimated with precision, historical patterns and recent data suggested that current levels of labor and product market resource utilization were in a zone consistent with little or no remaining economic slack. The recent behavior of core consumer prices seemed to indicate that any pass-through of higher energy and other commodity prices had been limited. In addition, productivity growth, moderate increases in compensation, contained inflation expectations, and international competition were helping to restrain unit labor costs and price pressures. Nonetheless, meeting participants generally remained concerned about the risk that possible increases in resource utilization, in combination with the elevated prices of energy and other commodities, could add to inflation pressures.

Regarding the major sectors of the economy, meeting participants noted that consumer spending appeared to be growing at a solid pace, notwithstanding earlier rises in energy prices. Contacts in the retail sector reported strong demand, and lending to households seemed to be robust. However, some automobile dealers reported subdued demand for domestic name-plate products. In coming quarters, consumer outlays were expected to be supported by continued employment gains, household income growth, and relatively low long-term interest rates, even if gains in housing wealth abated.

Meeting participants discussed at some length signs of cooling in the residential real estate market. Published data on housing starts showed little evidence of a significant weakening in construction activity. However, anecdotal reports from several markets, surveys of homebuyer attitudes, and data on inventories, home sales, and new home cancellation rates all pointed to a moderation in housing activity. It was noted that the relatively robust data on construction activity could owe in part to unseasonably warm weather. Going forward, participants expected a deceleration in house prices to contribute to an increase in the household saving rate and to weigh on consumption growth. Aggregate demand was also expected to be restrained directly by a softening in the pace of home building. Moreover, rebuilding following last year's major hurricanes appeared to be proceeding at a slow pace, and so would provide only limited offset to the implications of more fundamental developments in this market.

Generally, however, the economic expansion appeared to be broad-based. Contacts indicated that certain sectors, such as energy and semiconductor production, were particularly strong. Against this backdrop, robust growth in business spending was seen as likely, even as household spending growth moderated somewhat. Business capital expenditures, especially on equipment and software, appeared to have considerable momentum, supported by strong corporate profits, exceptionally liquid balance sheets, and greater business optimism. Some participants indicated that nonresidential construction was in the process of picking up and commercial vacancy rates were declining in some regions.

Financial market conditions remained supportive of growth, with long-term rates relatively low, risk spreads in corporate debt markets narrow, and banks seeking lending opportunities. Merger and acquisition activity was strong and infusions of private equity continued at a rapid pace, but the domestic market for initial public offerings was reported to be quite weak. Although rates on fixed-rate mortgages remained historically low, some ratcheting up of rates on adjustable-rate mortgages was seen as a factor weighing to some degree on the housing market. More generally, the effects on spending of the substantial increase in short- and intermediate-term rates since June 2004 had probably not yet been fully felt.

There were reports of increased construction by state and local governments, which were benefiting from strong tax collections. Federal defense expenditures had leveled out. Foreign economic growth appeared to have strengthened of late, prompting some firming of monetary policy by several foreign central banks. Nonetheless, increases in imports were expected to continue to outpace increases in exports in coming quarters, trimming the rate of expansion of domestic output.

Meeting participants saw both upside and downside risks to their outlook for expansion around the rate of growth of the economy's potential. In the housing market, for instance, some downshift from the rapid price increases and strong activity of recent years seemed to be underway, but the magnitude of the adjustment and its effects on household spending were hard to predict. Some participants cited stronger growth abroad and robust nonresidential investment spending as potentially contributing more to activity than expected. It was also noted that an abrupt rise in long-term interest rates, reflecting, for example, a reversion of currently low term premiums to more typical levels, could weigh on both household and business spending.

Several participants noted that the labor market had continued to strengthen, with payrolls increasing at a solid pace. The labor market was now showing some signs of tightness, consistent with a relatively low jobless rate. There were anecdotal reports of shortages of skilled labor in a few sectors, such as health care, technology, and finance. Still, participants expressed uncertainty about how much slack remained. Pressures on unit labor costs appeared contained, despite rising health-care costs, amid continued robust productivity growth and still-moderate increases in several comprehensive measures of compensation growth.

In their discussion of prices, participants indicated that data over the intermeeting period, including measures of inflation expectations, suggested that underlying inflation was not in the process of moving higher. Crude oil prices, though volatile, had not risen appreciably in recent months on balance, and a flattening in energy prices was beginning to damp headline inflation. In addition, core consumer inflation was flat or even a bit lower by some measures. Some meeting participants expressed surprise at how little of the previous rise in energy prices appeared to have passed through into core inflation measures. However, with energy prices remaining high, and prices of some other commodities continuing to rise, the risk of at least a temporary impact on core inflation remained a concern.

Participants noted that there were as yet few signs that any tightness in product and labor markets was adding to inflation pressures. To date, unit labor costs were not placing pressure on inflation, and high profit margins left firms a considerable buffer to absorb cost increases. Moreover, actual and potential competition from abroad could be restraining cost and price pressures, though participants exchanged views on the extent to which conditions in foreign markets might be constraining prices domestically. However, participants observed that there was a risk that continuing increases in resource utilization could add to inflationary pressures. Some participants held that core inflation and inflation expectations were already toward the upper end of the range that they viewed as consistent with price stability, making them particularly vigilant about upside risks to inflation, especially given how costly it might be to bring inflation expectations back down if they were to rise.