In the Committee's discussion of current and prospective economic conditions, members commented that the recent data on the performance of the economy had been disappointing and had tended to confirm widespread anecdotal indications that economic growth had slowed to a pace well below that experienced earlier in the year. Even so, the members acknowledged that the economy had displayed remarkable resiliency over the past year despite being subjected to severe adverse shocks. While the latter clearly had taken their toll on confidence, notably in the business sector, consumer spending had held up relatively well. Business investment expenditures continued to be constrained by a high degree of uncertainty and related caution. Looking beyond the near term, the members anticipated that as the prevailing uncertainties began to diminish, the economy's resiliency abetted by broadly accommodative monetary and fiscal polices and the continuation of a strong uptrend in productivity would underpin a gradual economic recovery. Indeed, some members commented that an even more robust recovery could not be ruled out in the absence of further major shocks to confidence. With pressures on labor and other resources expected to be limited over coming quarters, inflation was likely to remain subdued and perhaps even to edge a little lower.

In their review of developments and prospects in key expenditure sectors of the economy, members noted that consumer spending appeared to have decelerated since midsummer, while an anticipated and hopefully compensating strengthening in business investment had not yet materialized. Factors cited by the members that appeared to help account for the recent softness in consumer demand included substantial decreases in equity wealth, declining consumer confidence in the context of geopolitical and other uncertainties, the waning effects of earlier income tax cuts, and the failure of the most recent round of motor vehicle sales incentives to maintain the extraordinary level of sales seen during the summer. Looking ahead, some members referred to subdued expectations among their retailer contacts regarding the upcoming holiday season, with sales prospects likely to be held back at least marginally by the lingering effects of the recent West Coast dock strike on the availability of merchandise. There also was some question as to whether funds extracted from rising home equity values would continue to provide as important a source of financing for purchases of consumer durables as they had for some time unless mortgage interest rates declined from their already low levels. Members also mentioned a number of favorable factors bearing on the longer-term outlook for consumer spending. These included the prospect of strengthening consumer confidence if geopolitical uncertainties began to dissipate, the gradual diminution of the negative wealth effects from earlier stock market declines, and importantly the outlook for continued robust growth in structural labor productivity and its favorable effects over time on wages and salaries.

High and persisting uncertainty and concomitant aversion to risk among business executives apparently continued to hold down business investment spending. While such expenditures remained at a high level, members saw few signs of a significant pickup in the nearer term. Apart from notably adverse business sentiment and disappointing growth in sales and profits, factors that were curbing capital expenditures cited by members included persisting capital overhangs stemming from what were now seen as excessive earlier buildups in equipment and software and substantial idle capacity in many industrial and commercial structures. Some divergence of opinion was expressed regarding the overall extent of capital overhangs, though it was clearly evident in some industries and in high vacancy rates in nonresidential buildings in many areas of the country. Looking to the future, the timing and strength of a decisive upturn in capital expenditures, a key factor in the outlook for some improvement in the performance of the overall economy, would depend critically on the dissipation of prevailing uncertainties, including those associated with geopolitical risks, and increasing prospects for profits. In the latter regard, it was suggested that in the context of rising productivity, profits could prove to be stronger than many now expected, with favorable implications for cash flows and in turn investment activity.

Cautious business attitudes and expectations of sluggish sales over coming months were inducing business firms to continue to hold down what were already generally lean inventories. Nonetheless, some members commented that inventory accumulation was likely to provide some limited impetus to the economy over the next several quarters to the extent that an acceleration in economic activity occurred and businesses sought to maintain an acceptable balance between their inventories and sales. Indeed, with inventories at unusually low levels in many industries, efforts to rebuild such inventories appeared inevitable.

Housing activity had remained at a generally elevated level in recent months and in the context of low mortgage interest rates likely would continue to provide important support to the economy over the forecast period. Most regional reports indicated persisting strength in the housing sector, though there was evidence of modestly flagging activity in some areas. In this regard, it was noted that the declining trend in mortgage interest rates probably would not continue once forecasts of a strengthening economic expansion began to materialize. Indeed, the rise in bond yields since the September meeting associated with the improvement in the stock market had induced a small increase in mortgage rates from their very low levels. At some point the extraordinary levels of cash-outs from mortgage refinancings and home sales would undoubtedly moderate, with adverse implications for spending on home improvements and consumer durables more generally. Still, household spending probably would continue to be supported by the increases in income and wealth associated with strengthening economic expansion and rising productivity.

Members commented that fiscal policy remained accommodative, but an analysis cited at this meeting suggested that the stimulus embodied in current legislation had diminished considerably since earlier in the year. Reference also was made to the partial expensing provision of the tax legislation enacted in March of this year, which was seen as a positive but not in itself a compelling factor in inducing expenditures on business equipment and software. Some members observed that further federal tax cuts, should they be enacted, would likely take effect too late to foster much added spending over the year ahead. At the state and local government levels, efforts to control very large deficits likely would lead to tax and spending legislation that would offset at least part of the remaining stimulus inherent in the federal budget.

Members commented that little if any stimulus could be expected from the export sector of the economy in light of current and prospective shortfalls in the economic performance of important U.S. trading partners. Indeed, recent forecasts incorporated downward revisions to the growth of overall foreign economic activity.

With the economy evidently on a lower-than-anticipated growth path and with slack in labor and product markets at elevated levels, members anticipated that inflation would remain quite subdued over the year ahead even in the context of some anticipated acceleration in economic activity. Indeed, the prospect of some persisting slack in resource use over coming quarters pointed to further disinflation. In this regard, some members referred to the possibility, which they viewed as remote, of a period of deflation in the event of a strongly negative demand shock.

In the Committee's discussion of policy for the intermeeting period ahead, all the members favored a proposal to reduce the target for the intended federal funds rate by 50 basis points to 1-1/4 percent. While the current stance of monetary policy was still accommodative and was providing important support to economic activity, the members were concerned that the generally disappointing data since the previous meeting, reinforcing the general thrust of the anecdotal evidence in recent months, pointed to a longer-lasting spell of subpar economic performance than they had anticipated earlier. In the circumstances, a relatively aggressive easing action could help to ensure that the current soft spot in the economy would prove to be temporary and enhance the odds of a robust rebound in economic activity next year. A further reason cited by some members for a sizable easing move related to their perceptions of a diminishing stimulus from earlier policy easing actions and indications that overall financial conditions, including bank lending terms, had become more restrictive this year even though the nominal federal funds rate target had not been changed since late 2001. The members agreed that monetary policy could do little to improve the performance of the economy in the near term, but some emphasized that a 50 basis point easing likely would feed through to some degree to market interest rates, with favorable implications for spending next year.

Members commented that the potential costs of a policy easing action that later proved not to have been needed were quite limited in that there was little risk that such a move would foster inflationary pressures under likely economic conditions over the next several quarters. Moreover, the policy easing could readily be unwound without significant effects on financial markets if the reversal appeared to be warranted by growing pressures on resources in a strengthening economy. In contrast, a failure to take an action that was needed because of a faltering economic performance would increase the odds of a cumulatively weakening economy and possibly even attendant deflation. An effort to offset such a development, should it appear to be materializing, would present difficult policy implementation problems.

All the members indicated that, in light of the contemplated 50 basis point easing action, they could support a shift in the Committee's assessment of the risks to the economy from tilted toward economic weakness to balanced for the foreseeable future, although some voiced reservations about the need for such a shift. The economy probably would continue to underperform in the period immediately ahead, but in the absence of unpredictable adverse shocks this sluggish performance was more likely to be balanced by subsequent economic strength in light of the policy action. A 50 basis point move would tend to have a more pronounced effect than usual in financial markets, at least initially, because it would be largely unexpected and would come after an extended hiatus in implementing policy changes. In the view of many members, retaining the assessment that the risks were tilted toward weakness would raise the odds of an overreaction in financial markets, which might well misread the Committee's decision as a sign that the members were more concerned about the potential for greater economic weakness than was in fact the case and that therefore the Committee currently saw a likely need for further easing later. Some members saw a lesser risk of such a development, partly because of widespread market expectations that even with a sizable reduction in the intended federal funds rate the Committee would not change its assessment of unbalanced risks to the economy in present circumstances. Although they had at least a marginal preference for retaining the current tilt toward weakness, these members were willing to accept a balanced statement in light of the uncertainties that surrounded prospective market reactions. While the possible market response was not a primary factor determining the desirability of a policy action, the Committee needed to take it into account in gauging the potential effects of particular policy moves.