The information reviewed at this meeting suggested that economic growth had slowed from the moderate pace of the third quarter. Residential construction activity remained high, but consumer spending had softened and business investment was still sluggish. Industrial production had slipped in recent months and private payroll employment had changed little, while labor productivity remained on a strong upward trend. Overall price inflation had fallen over the past year, reflecting both favorable developments in the food and energy sectors and a continuing decline in core inflation.

Aggregate labor market conditions weakened further in October. Private nonfarm payroll employment declined in September and October after four previous months of modest gains in hiring. The number of jobs in manufacturing and related industries continued to fall, with losses widely spread. The construction, transportation, and utilities industries also registered further job losses. By contrast, the services sector continued to expand despite job reductions in the help-supply industry, and the strong housing market and mortgage refinancing activity led to brisk hiring in the finance, insurance, and real estate industries. Total hours worked by private production workers moved down in October, and initial claims for unemployment insurance were at a relatively elevated rate. The civilian unemployment rate rose to 5.7 percent in October.

Industrial production decreased slightly further in September, and available weekly information pointed to another reduction in output in October. Softness in the manufacturing sector was widespread. In the high-tech sector, output continued to rise, but much less rapidly than earlier in the year. Motor vehicle assemblies ebbed a little from the robust third-quarter pace. Elsewhere in manufacturing, production weakened in many categories, including commercial aircraft, non-auto consumer goods, and various types of business equipment. Capacity utilization in manufacturing edged lower in September and was substantially below its long-run average.

In the context of limited gains in personal income and declining consumer confidence, retail sales weakened in September after two months of robust increases. The earlier gains were fueled mainly by very large manufacturer discounts on 2002 models of motor vehicles. Incentives on 2003 models were smaller in September, and consumer response was tepid. Retail sales of non-auto goods also decreased in September after having registered only modest growth in July and August. Outlays for services edged up in September.

Residential housing activity, supported by mortgage rates near historical lows, remained very strong in September despite an environment of sluggish employment and declining household wealth. Starts of single-family units reached a twenty-three year high in September, and starts in the multifamily sector were a little above their average since January of this year. Sales of new homes edged up to a record level in September, and sales of existing homes continued to be brisk, though a little below the exceptional pace of the first half of the year. The strength of housing demand was also reflected in further rapid gains in home prices.

Business fixed investment edged up in the third quarter, as a pickup in expenditures for equipment and software nearly offset a further sharp decline in spending on nonresidential structures. The return to positive growth of spending for equipment and software was led by robust business outlays for computers and peripheral equipment and for motor vehicles. By contrast, investment in telecommunications equipment and aircraft remained on a steep downward trend. Nonresidential construction activity also continued to decline rapidly, with considerable further reductions in all major categories.

The book value of manufacturing and trade inventories excluding motor vehicles registered consecutive gains in July and August after months of heavy liquidation. Despite the recent accumulation, inventory-sales ratios in most industries were at, or near, historic lows.

The U.S. trade deficit in goods and services widened in August, and the average deficit for July and August was virtually unchanged from that for the second quarter. The value of both imports and exports changed little in the July-August period. The available information on economic activity abroad in the third quarter suggested mixed results. Canada apparently grew briskly, and the United Kingdom recorded further moderate economic expansion. In the euro area and Japan, growth appeared to be weakening. The pace of recovery in most of emerging Asia also appeared to have slowed, though China evidently remained on a path of robust expansion. In South America, economic conditions generally remained fragile. Economic activity was still very weak in Argentina and Venezuela, and the Brazilian economy continued to be adversely affected by uncertainties concerning the economic policies of the incoming government. Mexico has been largely unaffected by the financial and political problems of major South American countries, but it nonetheless experienced slower economic growth in the third quarter.

Consumer price inflation continued to trend downward in September. The rise in consumer prices for the year ending in September was considerably smaller than that for the previous twelve-month period. While much of that drop reflected developments in the food and energy sectors, core inflation also declined noticeably. Judged by consumer surveys, slower price increases over the past year apparently led consumers to lower their expectations of near-term inflation. At the producer level, prices for core finished goods likewise decelerated over the twelve months ended in September. With regard to labor costs, growth in average hourly earnings of production or nonsupervisory workers declined significantly over the twelve months ended in September, evidently reflecting the effects of both the rise in unemployment and the drop in consumer price inflation.