At the conclusion of the discussion, the Committee voted to authorize and direct the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, until it was instructed otherwise, to execute transactions in the System Account in accordance with the following domestic policy directive:

The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions that will foster price stability and promote sustainable growth in output. To further its long-run objectives, the Committee in the immediate future seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with reducing the federal funds rate to an average of around 1-1/4 percent.

The vote encompassed approval of the sentence below for inclusion in the press statement to be released shortly after the meeting:

Against the background of its long-run goals of price stability and sustainable economic growth and of the information currently available, the Committee believes that the risks are balanced with respect to prospects for both goals in the foreseeable future.

Use of Alternative Assets in Open Market Operations
At this meeting the Committee provided further guidance to the staff on priorities for the continuing study of alternatives to Treasury securities in the conduct of System open market operations. At its meeting in March of this year, the Committee had reaffirmed its preference for the use of Treasury securities to implement the System's monetary policy, contingent upon the continued availability of a sufficient outstanding volume of such obligations to accommodate the System's very large operations. As was already apparent at the time of the March meeting, fiscal policy developments made it clear that earlier concerns about a contracting supply of securities in the U.S. government securities market would not likely impose constraints on the System's open market operations in the near term.

Even so, the members expressed a consensus in favor of continuing to study alternatives to Treasury obligations for potential future use. Pursuant to the Committee's instructions in March, the staff had activated its study of the possible employment of mortgage-backed securities guaranteed by the Government National Mortgage Association (Ginnie Maes) in outright System open market operations. Such obligations were already being utilized for temporary additions to the System's portfolio through repurchase agreements. During their discussion at this meeting, the members recognized that outright purchases of Ginnie Maes for permanent additions to the System's portfolio would present a number of difficulties and would require extensive preparations for their effective integration, if deemed desirable at a later date, into the conduct of outright System open market operations. Still, in view of their possible advantages in helping to meet SOMA portfolio objectives at some point in the future, the Committee instructed the staff to continue to focus available resources on the possible use of Ginnie Maes for such operations. The Committee also decided to discontinue further consideration of the possible use of foreign sovereign debt obligations as collateral for repurchase agreements in light of the problems that were envisaged in the employment of such securities.

At this meeting the Committee also reviewed work that had been done on the potential use of an auction credit facility (ACF) that could serve as a partial substitute for Treasury or other securities. In addition, the Committee reviewed a study that considered whether an ACF might be adapted for use in a contingency (CACF) as a full substitute for open market operations. Many of the members commended the staff for its careful assessment of the potential for such operations. The members concluded, however, that significant resources should not be assigned at this time to the further study of these alternatives to open market operations given the prospects for an enlarged supply of Treasury obligations, the decision to focus on Ginnie Maes, and the introduction of a new discount window program, the System's primary credit facility, scheduled for implementation in early 2003. In addition, the CACF had been made unnecessary by the implementation of contingency plans and backup facilities since September 2001. The members concurred with the staff's recommendation that the staff studies prepared for the Committee in January 2001, when it discussed in detail various alternatives to holding U.S. government securities, should be released to the public after light editing was completed.