The staff projection for real GDP growth was weaker than the one prepared for the January meeting, as incoming data for aggregate spending were below expectations and the support from financial conditions had lessened. The unemployment rate was forecast to edge up but remain close to the staff's estimate of its natural rate. The staff made no material changes to the placeholder assumptions for potential policies that were used for the previous baseline forecast and continued to note elevated uncertainty regarding the scope, timing, and potential economic effects of possible changes to trade, immigration, fiscal, and regulatory policies. The staff continued to highlight the difficulty of assessing the importance of such factors for the baseline projection and had prepared a number of alternative scenarios.

The staff's inflation projection was a little higher for this year than the one prepared for the previous meeting, primarily reflecting higher-than-expected incoming data. Inflation in 2025 was forecast to be somewhat above the rate posted last year, mostly because the expected effects of the staff's placeholder assumption for trade policy put upward pressure on inflation this year. After that, inflation was projected to decline to 2 percent by 2027.

The staff assessed that the uncertainty around their baseline projection had increased but continued to view the uncertainty around the forecast as similar to the average over the past 20 years, a period that saw a number of episodes during which uncertainty about the economy and federal policy changes was elevated. The staff judged that the risks around the baseline projections for economic activity and employment had tilted to the downside, as data on aggregate spending and financial conditions had come in somewhat weaker than expected and a number of indicators of household, business, and financial market participant sentiment had turned downbeat. The risks around the baseline projection for inflation were still seen as skewed to the upside because core inflation had not come down as much as expected last year and because changes to trade policy could put more upward pressure on inflation than the staff had assumed.