The information available at the time of the meeting indicated that real GDP was expanding at a solid pace. The unemployment rate had stabilized at a relatively low level since the middle of last year. Consumer price inflation remained somewhat elevated.

Total consumer price inflation—as measured by the 12-month change in the price index for personal consumption expenditures (PCE)—was estimated by the staff to have been 2.5 percent in February, based on the consumer and producer price indexes. Core PCE price inflation, which excludes changes in consumer energy prices and many consumer food prices, was estimated to have been 2.8 percent in February. Both total and core inflation were little changed relative to their year-earlier levels.

Recent data indicated that labor market conditions remained solid and had stabilized. The unemployment rate was 4.1 percent in February, the same as in December. The EPOP ratio and the LFPR edged down, on balance, over January and February. Average monthly gains for total nonfarm payrolls over January and February were solid but somewhat lower than their pace in the second half of last year. The ratio of job vacancies to unemployed workers was 1.1 in February, a bit below its average over 2019, and the quits rate edged up to 2.1 percent in January but was still well below its 2019 average. The total employment cost index for private-sector workers rose 3.6 percent over the 12 months ending in December, well below its year-earlier level. Average hourly earnings for all employees rose 4.0 percent over the 12 months ending in February, little changed from a year ago.

Real GDP growth was estimated to have been 2.3 percent in the fourth quarter, and available data suggested that real GDP was still rising at a solid, though somewhat slower, pace in the first quarter. Real PCE declined in January, but retail sales and sales of light motor vehicles bounced back in February. In contrast to most of the data in hand used to estimate real GDP growth, many indicators of consumer and business sentiment had turned more downbeat over the past two months. Export growth was modest in January. Import growth was strong relative to its fourth-quarter pace, consistent with reports that some U.S. importers were stocking up ahead of prospective tariff increases.

Economic growth abroad slowed to a subdued pace in the fourth quarter, in part because of weak manufacturing activity in Europe and Mexico. Recent export data from abroad and some other indicators suggested that foreign economic growth recovered modestly at the start of this year. Other indicators, however, pointed to weak momentum in manufacturing production, especially in Canada and Mexico. In China, the authorities announced a target of around 5 percent for GDP growth in 2025, supported by new fiscal policy measures.

Inflation abroad continued to remain near central bank targets in most foreign economies. In advanced foreign economies (AFEs), total inflation ticked up, in part because of a short-lived spike in oil prices early in the year, but core inflation continued to cool as wage growth slowed. In China, January and February inflation data suggested continued weak underlying price pressures. By contrast, in some Latin American countries, most notably Brazil, inflation picked up further, in part driven by past currency depreciation.

Many foreign central banks eased policy during the intermeeting period, including the Bank of Canada, the Bank of England, and the European Central Bank in the AFEs, and the Bank of Korea and the Bank of Mexico in the emerging market economies. By contrast, the Central Bank of Brazil increased its policy rate amid continued inflation concerns. Foreign central banks were increasingly noting that elevated uncertainty about trade policies was clouding their economic outlooks.