Committee participants continued their discussions related to their review of the Federal Reserve's monetary policy framework, with a focus on labor market dynamics and the FOMC's maximum employment goal. The staff briefed policymakers on the concept of maximum employment and related labor market indicators. They discussed conceptual benchmarks used in evaluating the position of the labor market relative to maximum employment and in ascertaining the interaction of maximum employment and price stability. They discussed a set of core labor market indicators used to help assess maximum employment, including the unemployment rate, job vacancies, the employment-to-population (EPOP) ratio, and the labor force participation rate (LFPR), and described the use of these indicators in assessing maximum employment during the pandemic-related recession and subsequent economic recovery. The staff also presented model-based analysis of simple monetary policy rules that respond to deviations of inflation from 2 percent but differ on whether they respond to shortfalls or deviations from maximum employment.

Participants generally supported the current description of maximum employment in the Statement on Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy as being not directly measurable and changing over time for reasons owing largely to nonmonetary factors. Participants acknowledged that it is difficult to assess maximum employment and that they have been well served by monitoring a wide range of indicators that can vary depending on labor market and economic conditions. They also reflected on how both the Committee and the public have interpreted the current description of maximum employment as a broad-based and inclusive goal.

Participants reviewed the relationship between the dual-mandate goals and noted that those goals are not necessarily in conflict when both unemployment and inflation are low. Participants also discussed the implications of pursuing a strategy that seeks to mitigate shortfalls of employment from its maximum level, as described in the statement, and the ways the public has interpreted that approach since it was introduced into the statement. Participants indicated that they thought it would be appropriate to reconsider the shortfalls language. They judged that any strategy conveyed in the statement should be robust to a wide range of economic circumstances. They also considered the extent to which the current statement had effectively communicated the Committee's approach to achieving its longer-run goals, including the Committee's assessment of the appropriate policy responses in a period of a tight labor market.