Over the intermeeting period, the market-implied path of the federal funds rate over the next few meetings edged higher but moved down at horizons beyond September, as ongoing trade policy uncertainty, indicators of weakening consumer and business sentiment, and some softer-than-expected economic data releases prompted investors to become more concerned about higher near-term inflation and downside risks to economic growth. Near-term inflation compensation rose notably, although longer-term inflation compensation appeared to remain well anchored. Nominal and real Treasury yields fell notably across the maturity spectrum.

Broad equity price indexes declined notably on net. The VIX—a forward-looking measure of near-term equity market volatility—rose, on net, following disappointing economic data releases and a number of tariff-related developments, and ended the period somewhat above its median over the past few decades. Credit spreads on investment- and speculative-grade bonds widened, on net, consistent with emerging concerns about economic growth, although both spreads remained narrow by historical standards.

Foreign financial markets were affected by investor concerns about global economic growth, in part related to higher tariffs, while expectations for greater fiscal spending in some economies provided an offsetting effect. On balance, longer-term yields and equity indexes increased in most major foreign economies. Tariff-related developments led to significant volatility in FX markets, and the exchange value of the dollar declined, on net, as investor optimism regarding the relative strength of the U.S. economy seemed to have diminished.

Conditions in U.S. short-term funding markets remained orderly. Secured market rates increased early in the period, retracing the decline following the technical adjustment in the ON RRP rate in December, before declining later in the period. Treasury bill supply began contracting in late February and was expected to decline further until the resolution of the federal debt limit situation. The accompanying drawdown in the TGA was expected to boost ON RRP take-up and reserves, putting downward pressure on secured market rates; early signs of these dynamics were evident over the latter half of the period.

Borrowing costs for households, businesses, and municipalities declined. Rates on 30-year fixed-rate conforming residential mortgages declined in line with the 10-year Treasury yield. Interest rates for newly originated commercial and industrial (C&I) loans moved down a bit in the fourth quarter but remained elevated relative to their historical distribution. Yields on newly issued agency and non-agency commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS) decreased but stayed somewhat above historical standards. While interest rates on existing credit card accounts remained elevated, they fell noticeably in the fourth quarter, reflecting the declines in the prime rate since the September FOMC meeting. Auto loan rates also fell last quarter but retraced some of those declines early this year.

Financing from capital markets continued to be broadly available for large-to-midsize businesses and municipalities. Following subdued corporate bond issuance in December, gross issuance was solid in January and February. Bank credit appeared to have become somewhat more available to large businesses. C&I loan balances at large domestic banks continued to grow modestly through mid-February. By contrast, credit conditions for small businesses remained moderately tight. Multiple recent surveys, including the Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices and the Kansas City Fed's Small Business Lending Survey, suggested that lending standards had remained relatively tight for small businesses through December. Commercial real estate (CRE) loan growth accelerated through mid-February after remaining subdued in the second half of last year, as growth in nonfarm nonresidential loans was strong.

Credit continued to be easily available for high-credit-score mortgage borrowers. Mortgage credit availability for lower-credit-score borrowers continued to tighten slightly. Consumer credit remained generally available.

Credit quality remained solid for large-to-midsize firms, municipalities, and most home mortgage borrowers, but it continued to deteriorate in other sectors. The credit performance of corporate bonds had been generally stable recently, and the performance of leveraged loans deteriorated slightly but remained solid overall. At banks, delinquency rates on C&I loans edged up in the fourth quarter but stayed just above the middle of the range observed over the past decade. Meanwhile, delinquency rates for short- and long-term small business loans and for small business credit cards ticked down in December but remained above pre-pandemic levels. Credit quality in the CRE market deteriorated in the fourth quarter, partly driven by multifamily loans. More recently, however, CMBS delinquency rates declined in January and February, particularly among office building loans. The short-term delinquency rate on Federal Housing Administration mortgages inched down in January but remained elevated relative to the past few years. Delinquency rates on most other types of home mortgages stayed low. Delinquency rates on credit cards fell substantially in the fourth quarter, their largest decline since the second quarter of 2021, but they remained at elevated levels.