The information reviewed at this meeting indicated that economic activity expanded only slightly in the second quarter. Businesses added a bit to their inventory positions after an extended period of sizable declines, but final sales changed little: business capital spending weakened somewhat further while growth in consumer spending, residential housing expenditures, and government outlays slowed. The scant information available for the third quarter, principally July's very strong motor vehicle sales, suggested that domestic demand was still recovering but relatively sluggishly. Industrial production had continued to advance since the first quarter, but the demand for labor services had increased only slightly and the unemployment rate had risen. Importantly, labor productivity continued on a strong upward trend. Overall price inflation had fallen sharply over the past year, largely reflecting developments in the food and energy sectors, and core inflation had eased a little.

Private nonfarm payroll employment inched up in July after a mild increase in June, though aggregate hours worked by production or nonsupervisory workers declined steeply. The help-supply portion of the services sector and the construction industry recorded substantial net job losses over the June-July period, but manufacturing registered its smallest payroll decline in two years in July, and hiring was relatively brisk in services other than help-supply. The civilian unemployment rate edged up in June, to 5.9 percent, and was unchanged in July.

Industrial production jumped in June, and gains in output were widespread across market groups and industries. However, the limited available information indicated that output leveled out in July after six consecutive months of increases. Capacity utilization in manufacturing moved a little higher in June but remained substantially below its long-run average.

Retail sales were relatively brisk in June and July despite plunging equity prices and an apparently marked erosion in consumer confidence. Households spent heavily on motor vehicles in response to incentives offered by auto manufacturers, and their expenditures on other retail categories were generally well maintained.

Residential housing activity remained strong in the second quarter, buoyed by a very favorable mortgage financing environment. The pace of homebuilding in the quarter continued well above that seen during the past few years even though single-family housing starts in June did not reach the elevated May level. Sales of new single-family homes in June remained at a record high, but sales of existing homes declined noticeably. In the multifamily sector, June starts were in the lower end of their range over recent quarters. Market conditions in the condominium and cooperative apartment portion of the housing sector appeared to be favorable, but rising vacancy rates and weaker rents apparently hindered the rental apartment segment.

Business investment in equipment and structures declined further in the second quarter as the continuing downdraft in nonresidential construction more than offset a pickup in business spending for durable equipment and software. Despite gradually improving fundamentals--rising output and profits, new tax incentives, and a low cost of capital--firms remained cautious about stepping up their investments in equipment and software, and recent data on orders and shipments of nondefense capital goods coupled with anecdotal reports suggested further lackluster gains in spending in coming months. In the nonresidential construction sector, outlays for office, industrial, and other structures, lodging facilities, and public utilities declined substantially further. By contrast, construction of institutional structures was up again in the second quarter.

Nonfarm inventory investment turned slightly positive in the second quarter after several quarters of heavy liquidation. Success in pruning inventories had resulted in inventory-sales ratios that generally were at very low levels across the manufacturing, wholesale, and retail sectors. There appeared to be only a few industries with still sizable inventory overhangs.

The U.S. trade deficit in goods and services widened further in May and for the April-May period. The expansion of the deficit over the two months reflected a sharp rise in the value of imports that exceeded a sizable gain in the value of exports. The step-up in imports was spread widely across almost all the major trade categories, with notable increases in motor vehicles, consumer goods, and machinery. The advance in exports was primarily in automotive parts, industrial supplies, and capital equipment. With regard to economic activity abroad, the available information, which is released in many cases only with a considerable lag, indicated that foreign economic output generally continued to rebound during the first half of the year, though the pace of recovery was uneven across regions and countries. Growth was strong in Canada, the United Kingdom, and emerging Asia, but expansion in the euro area and Japan remained sluggish, owing to continued weakness in final domestic demand. In South America, economic and financial conditions had deteriorated significantly during the intermeeting period, especially in Brazil and Uruguay, and economic activity remained particularly weak in Argentina and Venezuela.

Consumer price inflation trended down over the past year. Much of the drop reflected developments in the food and energy sectors, but core inflation also eased a little. In May and June, both the consumer price and the chain-weighted personal consumption indexes exhibited little change in total and core prices. Moreover, at the producer level, inflation in core finished goods was at a low rate in the May-June period and the past twelve months. With regard to labor costs, the employment cost index for hourly compensation of private industry workers increased at a somewhat faster rate during the three months ended in June, reflecting a surge in benefit costs. From a somewhat longer perspective, however, growth of compensation costs over the twelve months ended in June was the same as in the previous twelve-month period.