In the Committee's discussion of current and prospective economic developments, members commented that much of the incoming information on economic activity had been disappointing, and many indicated that they had marked down their growth forecasts for the months ahead. Even so, with recent weakness concentrated in volatile high-frequency data that might well prove to be transitory and with business and consumer confidence unlikely to deteriorate further in the absence of a major shock to the economy, members continued to place favorable odds on an underlying outlook of strengthening expansion. Factors cited for this positive outlook included the stimulative stances of fiscal and monetary policy, the apparent completion in most industries of efforts to bring inventories and capital facilities into desired alignment with expected sales, and the support to consumer incomes and business incentives provided by the continued rise in structural productivity. Further gains in productivity and the prospect for relatively contained demand pressures on resources, which were likely to be somewhat more limited for a time than members had anticipated earlier, would contribute to keeping price inflation subdued.

A number of members commented on financial developments that appeared to be holding back the pace of the expansion. While prices in equity markets had turned up from their recent lows, the cumulative losses in financial wealth incurred since early 2000 clearly were having an adverse impact on expenditures by households and the higher cost of equity capital was inhibiting business investment. The declines in equity prices had been accompanied by a heightened degree of risk aversion that had led to widened credit spreads in financial markets and the curtailment of credit availability to potential borrowers whose repayment prospects were viewed as questionable. To an extent that was difficult to determine, the current skittishness in debt and equity markets reflected lender and investor reactions to the ongoing revelations of corporate governance failures. Those reactions, which were proving to be more severe and probably would be longer-lasting than many had anticipated, appeared to be contributing to more cautious business spending and hiring, at least temporarily. It was unclear when the associated uncertainties would diminish and confidence would begin to rebuild, though the outlook might come into better focus after the mid-August SEC deadline for the certification of financial statements by corporate executives. On the positive side, home mortgage financing remained widely available at low interest rates and was providing important support to household spending. More generally, interest costs had declined for borrowers with acceptable credit ratings, and the overall condition of the banking system remained sound with bank credit widely available. Moreover, for many households, the negative wealth effects stemming from losses on equities were offset, at least to some extent, by continuing increases in home equity values. These ongoing factors suggested to some members that the effects of the financial restraints on economic activity might be fairly limited at this point.

In their review of demand prospects in key sectors of the economy, members noted that household spending was continuing to play a key role in sustaining the expansion. Retail sales, buttressed by strength in motor vehicles, had been well maintained in recent months despite survey evidence of declining consumer confidence. The extraction of funds from increases in home equity evidently remained an important source of financing for household expenditures, especially including outlays for home modernization. Looking ahead, the anticipated pickup in employment and related gains in incomes, undergirded by continued robust growth in structural productivity, was seen as supporting further expansion in consumer spending. Some members commented, however, that the declines in equity wealth and the possible persistence of turmoil in equity markets might continue to restrain the pickup in consumer expenditures in the months ahead.

In the housing sector, low mortgage interest rates remained a key factor in sustaining homebuilding activity at a relatively elevated level. Housing markets continued to exhibit strength across much of the country, with few indications of any moderation except for sales of high-priced homes. It was noted that, in the absence of an unanticipated downturn in general economic activity, underlying pressures for housing as the population expanded coupled with the scarcity of viable homebuilding sites in urban areas likely would preclude any substantial decline in housing activity or housing prices in the foreseeable future.

The weakness in business fixed investment was still a depressant on overall economic activity, though the decline in business outlays had abated since the latter part of 2001; indeed, spending for equipment and software had edged up in the second quarter. With excess stocks of capital inventories seemingly worked down to more acceptable levels in many industries and with expansion in final sales expected to become more firmly established, an acceleration in spending for equipment and software was likely in store. As they had at earlier meetings, however, members observed that business sentiment remained extraordinarily cautious on the whole and that business firms in most industries continued to direct their investment spending primarily toward enhancing the productivity of their operations rather than also increasing capacity. Exceptions cited by members included the enlargement of production facilities by some firms in industries that were currently enjoying vigorous demand, such as producers of motor vehicles. How soon the gloom surrounding the outlook for a pickup in sales and profits and the associated concerns in financial markets would dissipate was subject to substantial uncertainty, but increasing needs for capital as the economy continued to expand, further growth in investment opportunities in conjunction with the uptrend in structural productivity, and the temporary tax incentive provision for equipment and software likely would support a sustained recovery in investment expenditures over coming quarters that would provide essential impetus for lifting economic growth.

The prospects for an upturn in nonresidential construction appeared to many to be more bleak. Reports from around the nation pointed to high, and in many areas still rising, vacancy rates for commercial and industrial space, and hotel construction continued to be held down by the problems afflicting the travel industry. Against this backdrop, overall nonresidential building activity seemed likely to decline further over the next several quarters.

Business inventories edged up in the second quarter after declining persistently since early 2001. Indeed, the strengthening was sufficient to account for the small advance in GDP in the latest quarter. With inventories now apparently close to desired levels in many sectors of the economy and reportedly below such levels for some retailers, the expected strengthening in final sales would probably foster some inventory accumulation over coming quarters, thereby adding impetus to the projected growth of the economy.

Government spending also was expected to provide ongoing stimulus to the expansion, especially given the prospects for further spending initiatives in forthcoming federal legislation. In addition, already enacted income tax cuts and the tax expensing provision for certain investment outlays would help to support both consumer and business expenditures. Concurrently, though, state and local governments facing large shortfalls in revenues in a sluggish economy were holding down the overall growth in their expenditures. Anecdotal reports suggested, however, that sizable spending on a variety of construction projects was continuing, financed in part through bond issues. On balance, the government sector was expected to remain a positive factor in the economic recovery.

The depreciation of the dollar and overall strengthening in foreign economic activity were projected to foster moderate added growth in U.S. exports over the next several quarters. However, recent developments, including indications of weaker-than- projected economic recovery in Europe, growing questions about the outlook for several important economies in South America, and the continued sluggish performance of the Japanese economy, threatened to limit the improvement in exports, at least over the nearer term. Providing a partial counterweight were anecdotal reports indicating sizable growth in U.S. exports to a number of Asian countries.

The outlook for inflation remained very favorable in the context of continuing slack in labor markets and robust growth in structural productivity. Under these conditions, increases in trend unit labor costs were likely to remain subdued over the next several quarters despite likely further escalation in the cost of worker healthcare benefits. Indeed, the risks of any significant run-up in inflation appeared to have receded, and more time than anticipated earlier was likely to elapse before the expansion reached a pace that would begin to reduce margins of underutilized labor and other producer resources. Even so, examples of rising cost and price pressures were not entirely absent. In addition to healthcare insurance costs, these pressures included insurance costs more generally, steel prices, some materials costs, and, in association with the dollar's depreciation, some upward pressures on import prices. On balance and barring a major supply shock to the economy, members saw little reason for concern about the prospect of an increase in inflation in the foreseeable future.

In the Committee's discussion of policy for the intermeeting period ahead, all the members were in favor of an unchanged policy stance consistent with retaining a target rate of 1-3/4 percent for the federal funds rate. Although some economic and financial indicators had deteriorated since the June meeting and the members generally had scaled down their economic forecasts, they continued to see favorable prospects for a strengthening economy over time. To be sure, a further significant weakening in economic prospects--for example, that might be associated with additional deterioration in financial markets--might well call for a policy response, but for now the members viewed the current degree of monetary accommodation as appropriately calibrated to provide the stimulus needed to foster a solid expansion that would bring the economy to fuller resource utilization.

All the members indicated that they could accept, and most said they preferred, a proposal to shift the Committee's assessment of the risks to the economy from the currently neutral statement to one that was tilted toward weakness in the foreseeable future. A few expressed a preference to retain the current balanced risks statement for the press release to be issued shortly after this meeting. In support of this view, they underscored the considerable uncertainty surrounding the outlook for financial and economic conditions and the prospect that many observers in financial markets could misread a shift in the Committee's assessment of the risks to the outlook as a signal that the Committee was contemplating easing in the near term. All the members agreed, however, on the desirability of communicating in some form--whether in the text of the post-meeting press release or through a shift in the risks statement or both--their view that the expansion recently had been less robust than expected and that for the foreseeable future the risks of a more extended period of subpar growth had increased while those of inflation had declined. Several also commented that while the shift under consideration might raise expectations of some easing in coming months, those expectations and related market adjustments would be shaped principally by the tenor of the incoming economic information.