At its meeting on June 25-26, 2002, the Committee adopted a directive that called for maintaining conditions in reserve markets consistent with keeping the intended level of the federal funds rate at 1-3/4 percent, and it also retained a neutral balance of risks statement. There was little market reaction to the Committee's rate decision or its statement. Instead, market participants focused their attention on further revelations of corporate malfeasance, fears that more earnings restatements would be announced in the run-up to the August 14 deadline for certifying corporate financial statements, and concerns that second-half corporate earnings might prove disappointing. In this environment, equity prices plunged before recovering somewhat later in the intermeeting period; on net, the major broad equity indexes were down substantially. Yields on Treasury securities also fell markedly on balance in volatile trading, as investors sought a safe haven for their funds and trimmed their expectations about the path for the intended federal funds rate in coming quarters. However, doubts about corporate balance sheets and the prospects for earnings growth led to steep increases in corporate debt yields, particularly for lower-quality issues.

In foreign exchange markets, the trade-weighted value of the dollar changed little on balance in terms of the major foreign currencies over the intermeeting period, though early in the period the dollar declined sharply against those currencies amid further disclosures of U.S. corporate accounting irregularities and concerns about the strength of the U.S. recovery. Against the background of a similar combination of disappointing concerns, European stock prices dropped more than those in the United States, while Japanese equity prices declined less as incoming data seemed to point to a mild pickup of economic activity in Japan. Across all the major industrial economies, investors tended to shift funds toward less risky instruments and to lower their expectations for policy rates. The dollar also was little changed on balance against the index of currencies of other important trading partners, even though several South American countries were experiencing difficult financial and political problems.

Borrowing by domestic nonfinancial businesses had been weak recently, likely reflecting deteriorating conditions in credit markets and reduced requirements for funds to finance capital spending projects. Growth of M2 surged in July in association with large inflows to liquid deposits and retail money market funds.