At its meeting on January 30-31, 2001, the Committee adopted a directive that called for maintaining conditions in reserve markets consistent with a decrease of 50 basis points in the intended level of the federal funds rate, to about 5-1/2 percent. This move, in conjunction with the easing on January 3, was intended to help guard against cumulative weakness in economic activity and to provide some support to a rebound in growth later in the year. In the existing circumstances, the members agreed that the balance of risks remained weighted toward conditions that could generate economic weakness in the foreseeable future. Though rapid advances in underlying productivity were expected to continue, the adjustments to stocks of capital, consumer goods, and inventories to more sustainable levels were only partly completed, and financial markets remained unsettled.

Open market operations were directed throughout the intermeeting period toward maintaining the federal funds rate at the Committee's reduced target level of 5-1/2 percent, and the funds rate stayed close to that target. However, incoming economic data, a steady flow of disappointing corporate earnings reports, related sharp declines in stock prices, and a notable drop in consumer confidence led market participants to conclude that more monetary easing would be required. Yields on Treasury securities, both short- and long-term, moved appreciably lower. However, rates on high-yield private debt obligations fell only a little, and banks further tightened standards and terms on business loans, given the weakening outlook for profits. Broad indexes of U.S. stock market prices moved sharply lower, with the tech-heavy Nasdaq experiencing an especially large drop. Nonetheless, the trade-weighted value of the dollar rose somewhat over the intermeeting interval in terms of many of the major foreign currencies. The dollar strengthened most against the currencies of countries that were seen to have the greatest potential for economic weakening, notably Japan. The dollar also posted a small gain against an index of the currencies of other important trading partners.

The broad monetary aggregates continued to grow rapidly in February, though at slightly lower rates than in January. The strength in M2 was concentrated in its liquid components, apparently in response to the further narrowing of opportunity costs, the yield advantage of money funds relative to longer-term investments, and the appeal of a safe haven from volatile equity markets. M3 grew somewhat less rapidly than M2; a pullback in the issuance of bank-managed liabilities, particularly large time deposits, was associated with slower expansion of bank credit. Growth of domestic nonfinancial debt decelerated noticeably in January (latest data), reflecting reduced expansion of debt in the nonfederal sectors coupled with a larger contraction in the amount of federal debt outstanding.