In the Committee's discussion of current and prospective economic developments, members commented that the recent statistical and anecdotal information had been mixed, but they viewed evolving business conditions as consistent on the whole with a continued softness in economic activity. Members noted that consumer spending had strengthened early in the year and housing activity had remained at a relatively high level. These positive developments needed to be weighed against an appreciable weakening in business investment spending and the near-term restraining effects of a drawdown in inventories. Looking ahead, while sales and production data suggested that excess inventories were being worked off, the adjustment did not appear to have been completed. Beyond the inventory correction, the members continued to anticipate an acceleration of the expansion over time, though likely on a more delayed basis and at a more gradual pace than they had forecast earlier. They noted a number of favorable underlying factors that would tend to support a rebound, including solid productivity growth, stable low inflation, generally sound financial institutions, lower interest rates, and relatively robust expansion in many measures of money. However, the members saw clear downside risks in the outlook for consumer and investment spending in the context of the marked decline that had occurred in equity prices and consumer confidence, and in expected business profitability, and they were concerned that weaker exports might also hold down the expansion of economic activity. With regard to the outlook for inflation, some recent measures of increases in core prices had fluctuated on the high side of earlier expectations, but apart from energy prices and medical costs, inflation was still relatively quiescent. With the growth in output likely to remain below the expansion of the economy's potential for a while, members anticipated that inflation would remain subdued.

Mirroring the statistics for the nation as a whole, business conditions in different parts of the country displayed mixed industry patterns, but members reported that overall business activity currently appeared to be growing at a sluggish pace in most regions, and business contacts were exhibiting a heightened sense of caution, or even concern, in some industries. In their review of developments in key sectors of the economy, members indicated that they saw favorable prospects for continued moderate growth in consumer expenditures, though considerable uncertainty surrounded this outlook. Downside risks cited by the members included the substantial declines that had already occurred in measures of consumer confidence and equity wealth, and the possibility that consumer sentiment might be undermined even further by continued volatility and additional declines in the stock market and by rising concerns about job losses amid persistent announcements of layoffs. Members also referred to the retarding effects on consumer expenditures of elevated levels of household debt and high energy costs. Against this background, consumers might well endeavor to boost their savings, and even a fairly small increase in what currently was a quite low saving rate would have large damping effects on aggregate demand that could weaken, if not abort, the expansion. To date, however, overall consumer spending had remained relatively strong and seemingly at odds with measures of consumer confidence and reduced equity wealth. How this divergence might eventually be resolved was a significant source of uncertainty and downside risk. On balance, while there were reasons to be concerned about the outlook for consumer spending, members believed that recent spending trends and the outlook for further growth in employment and incomes pointed to continued expansion in this key sector of the economy, though likely at a relatively sluggish pace.

Another major source of downside risk to the expansion was business fixed investment. Spending for equipment and software declined in the fourth quarter, and the available statistical and anecdotal reports pointed to weakness during the first half of this year, largely reflecting developments in high-tech industries. Substantial downward adjustments to expected near-term business earnings had persisted, suggesting that firms saw investment as much less profitable than they had before and that cash flows would be constrained. Many businesses also were inhibited in their investment activities by less accommodative financial conditions associated with weaker equity markets and tighter credit terms and conditions imposed by banking institutions. As a consequence, a substantial volume of planned investment was being postponed, if not cancelled. The capital stock had grown at an unsustainable pace for a time, so some downshifting in investment was inevitable. Moreover, those earlier very substantial investment outlays seemed to have created excess capacity in a number of industries, and how large an adjustment in spending for business equipment might now be underway was still unclear, especially with regard to high-tech industries. At the same time, the information available for the first quarter indicated considerable strength in nonresidential construction activity, including large outlays on public sector infrastructure projects in some areas. On balance, business spending for plant and equipment was likely to pick up only gradually this year. Over the longer term, however, a return to more robust business investment seemed likely, and indeed business earnings forecasts beyond the nearer term had not declined very much, reflecting continuing expectations of substantial profit opportunities related to persisting strong gains in productivity.

Housing activity was generally holding up well across the country as the effects of appreciably reduced mortgage interest rates apparently compensated for the negative effects of declining financial wealth on the demand for housing. While housing construction was generally described as elevated, some members referred to overbuilding or weakness in some local housing markets. It was noted that homebuilders were generally optimistic about the prospects for the year ahead, given their current backlogs and expectations of further growth in employment and incomes.

The ongoing adjustments in business inventories had played a significant role in curbing the growth of economic activity in recent months, but such adjustments seemed likely gradually to become a more neutral factor over the balance of this year. In the motor vehicle industry, inventory liquidation had been especially pronounced and the process now seemed largely completed. However, the inventory-correction process in high-tech industries apparently was not as far along. In the absence of renewed weakness in overall final demand, which could not be ruled out given current consumer and business confidence, production would need to pick up at some point to accommodate ongoing final demand. Some members observed that the adjustment in inventories might require more time than they had anticipated earlier. In any event, completion of the process clearly would foster an upturn in manufacturing activity.

Members commented on the downside risks to U.S. exports and the U.S. expansion from what appeared to be softening economic conditions in a number of important foreign economies. In some countries, the risks were exacerbated by the apparent inability or unwillingness of government officials to address underlying structural problems in their economies and financial systems. Members noted anecdotal reports of weakening business conditions in a number of Asian and South American nations. The potential impact on exports of less vigor in the global economy would be augmented, of course, by the strength of the dollar in foreign exchange markets.

Although labor markets in general remained tight throughout the nation, anecdotal reports of less scarce labor resources were becoming more frequent in some areas or occupations. Some price increases had been noted; however, apart from the energy and health care sectors, price inflation had remained relatively subdued, evidently reflecting the combination of diminished growth in overall demand and strong competitive pressures in most markets. With regard to the outlook for wages and prices, members commented that the prospects for an extended period of growth in demand at a pace below the economy's potential should ease pressures on labor and other resources and help to contain inflation.

In the Committee's discussion of policy for the intermeeting period ahead, most of the members preferred and all could support a further easing of reserve conditions consistent with a 50 basis point reduction in the federal funds rate, to 5 percent. The members agreed that a strengthening in the economic expansion over coming quarters was a reasonable expectation, but absent further easing in monetary policy that pickup was unlikely to bring growth to an acceptable pace in the foreseeable future. Business investment would be held back by lower earnings expectations and a capital overhang of unknown dimensions; consumption was subject to downside risks from previous decreases in equity wealth and declining confidence; and the strong dollar and weaker foreign growth would constrain exports. Inflation was likely to be damped by ebbing pressures on labor and product markets. While many of the members generally believed that additional policy easing might well prove to be necessary at some time, the easing favored by most members incorporated what they viewed as an adequate degree of stimulus under current economic conditions and represented an appropriately calibrated step given the uncertainties in the economic outlook. It was noted in this regard that in combination with the two easing actions earlier this year, the Committee would have implemented in a relatively short period a considerable amount of monetary easing whose economic effects would be felt over time. However, some commented that the amount of financial stimulus was much smaller than might otherwise be expected from policy easing of this cumulative amount because it had been accompanied by further declines in stock market prices, more stringent financing terms for many business borrowers, and a stronger dollar, all of which would be holding down domestic spending and production. Indeed, financial markets had come to place some odds on a larger move of 75 basis points in recent days, importantly reflecting the possibility of a presumed policy response to the sizable declines in equity prices that had occurred as earnings prospects proved disappointing. Most members agreed, however, that in the context of their focus on the economy, smaller, possibly more frequent, policy adjustments were appropriate to afford them the opportunity to recalibrate policy in rapidly changing and highly uncertain circumstances.

A few members expressed a preference for a 75 basis point reduction in the federal funds rate. In their view, a more forceful action was justified by current and prospective economic conditions.

The members agreed that even with a further 50 basis point reduction in the federal funds rate, the risks to the economy would remain decidedly to the downside. This conclusion would be reflected in the press statement to be released after today's meeting. The statement also would emphasize the need for close monitoring of rapidly evolving economic conditions. The members anticipated that in the relatively long interval before the next regularly scheduled meeting on May 15, 2001, economic developments might suggest the desirability of a Committee conference call to assess business conditions across the nation and to consider the possible need for a further policy adjustment.