The information reviewed at this meeting suggested that economic activity continued to expand very slowly in the first quarter. Growth of final spending apparently picked up slightly, with consumer expenditures recording another moderate gain, business purchases of equipment and software increasing sluggishly after a fourth-quarter decline, and homebuilding remaining relatively firm. However, inventory overhangs were still apparent in some industries, and manufacturing production was cut sharply further. Overall employment gains were relatively well maintained, and labor markets were still tight though showing signs of softening. Price inflation had picked up a little but, abstracting from energy, had remained relatively subdued.

After a sluggish fourth quarter, private nonfarm payroll employment rose at a slightly higher rate on average in January and February, though still considerably below the pace of the first three quarters of 2000. Manufacturing and related industries, notably help-supply and wholesale trade, experienced further large declines in payrolls in the January-February period. However, hiring elsewhere held up relatively well, especially in construction, which recorded a surge in employment in January. While the labor market remained tight on balance, the unemployment rate increased to 4.2 percent in February, and other indicators such as initial claims for unemployment insurance suggested that pressures in labor markets had begun to abate.

The contraction in industrial production that began in October accelerated and broadened in the first two months of the year. In manufacturing, output fell further in the motor vehicle sector, and production continued to decelerate in high-tech industries. The rate of capacity utilization in manufacturing dropped noticeably in January and February to a level further below its long-run average.

Against a background of slowing income gains and a sizable pullback in consumer sentiment since last autumn, consumer spending evidently grew only moderately on balance in January and February. Purchases of motor vehicles picked up in response to increased marketing incentives put in place by Chrysler and General Motors, and retail sales of items other than motor vehicles climbed moderately. Spending on services was held down in January (latest data) by reduced expenditures for heating services as winter temperatures returned to more seasonal levels following unusually cold weather late last year; excluding heating, however, spending on other services rose slowly.

The decline in mortgage rates that began around the middle of last year continued to provide support to residential building activity. Total housing starts rose somewhat further in January and February, reflecting net increases in both single-family and, especially, multifamily units. Sales of new homes dropped sharply in January (latest data), after having surged in December, but remained quite robust by historical standards. Sales of existing homes rebounded in January after having fallen considerably in December and were up slightly on balance over the two months.

The limited available information suggested that business fixed investment was firming early this year after a decline in the fourth quarter of last year. Nominal shipments of nondefense capital goods other than aircraft and parts changed little on balance in December and January, while prices of high-tech equipment continued to fall. Moreover, orders for nondefense capital goods turned up briskly in January after a sharp fourth-quarter drop. Nonresidential construction activity continued its robust rise early in the year. Strength in building activity was widespread across the sector, most notably in new office construction.

Business inventories on a book-value basis increased in January at about the rapid fourth-quarter pace; inventory positions appeared to be especially large for construction materials, metals, electrical equipment, paper, chemicals, and textiles. In the manufacturing sector, overall stocks jumped in January while shipments fell, and the aggregate inventory-shipments ratio rose to its highest level in two years. In the wholesale trade sector, aggregate stocks fell again in January and the sector's inventory-sales ratio edged down to the middle of its very narrow range for the past year. Retail stocks continued to climb in January, but sales rose by more; the sector's inventory-sales ratio also edged lower, but it remained near the top of its range for the past twelve months.

The U.S. trade deficit in goods and services changed little in December but posted a new record high for the fourth quarter. The value of exports dropped substantially in that quarter, with notable declines occurring in agricultural products, aircraft, automotive products, computers and semiconductors, consumer goods, and telecommunications equipment. The value of imports remained at the high level recorded in the third quarter. Lower imports of automotive products, chemicals, computers and semiconductors, and steel were offset by higher imports of consumer goods and telecommunications equipment and smaller increases in other categories of trade. Economic growth in the foreign industrial countries was at a moderate rate on average in the fourth quarter. Expansion in the euro area picked up, while growth in Canada and the United Kingdom slowed significantly. The Japanese economy rebounded in the fourth quarter but was little changed on balance over the second half of the year, and recent indicators suggested a sharply weaker performance in the early part of this year. In addition, growth in the major developing countries slowed markedly in the fourth quarter, with the slowdown in most of those countries reflecting weaker demand for their exports.

Price inflation had picked up a bit recently. The consumer price index (CPI) jumped in January (latest data), reflecting a surge in energy prices; moreover, the index increased considerably more during the twelve months ending in January than it did during the previous twelve months. The core component of the CPI also accelerated in January and on a year-over-year basis, but by lesser amounts than did the total index. The increase in the core personal consumption expenditure (PCE) chain-type price index in January matched that of the core CPI; on a year-over-year basis, however, the pickup in core PCE inflation was a little smaller than that for the core CPI. At the producer level, core finished goods retraced in February only part of the sizable step-up in prices recorded in January, and core producer price inflation was up somewhat on a year-over-year basis. With regard to labor costs, recent data also pointed to some acceleration. Compensation per hour in the nonfarm business sector advanced appreciably more rapidly in the fourth quarter of 2000 and for the year as a whole. That trend also showed through to the average hourly earnings of production or nonsupervisory workers through February, which exhibited a roughly similar acceleration.