The information reviewed for the June 14-15 meeting indicated that the pace of improvement in labor market conditions slowed in April and May but that real gross domestic product (GDP) appeared to be rising faster than in the first quarter. Consumer price inflation continued to run below the Committee's longer-run objective of 2 percent, restrained in part by earlier decreases in energy prices and in prices of non-energy imports. Survey-based measures of longer-run inflation expectations were mixed in recent months, while market-based measures of inflation compensation declined from levels that were already low.

Total nonfarm payroll employment gains slowed in April and May, even after adjusting for the effects of a strike at a large telecommunications company. The unemployment rate dropped to 4.7 percent in May, partly reflecting an unusually large number of unemployed persons exiting the labor force. Over the first two months of the second quarter, both the labor force participation rate and the employment-to-population ratio moved down on net. The share of workers employed part time for economic reasons rose noticeably in May. Although the rate of private-sector job openings remained elevated, the rate of hires declined in both March and April and the rate of quits was unchanged. The four-week moving average of initial claims for unemployment insurance benefits moved up a little, on net, from late April to early June but was still at a low level. Labor productivity growth remained slow over the four quarters ending in the first quarter of 2016. Measures of labor compensation continued to rise at a moderate pace on balance: Compensation per hour in the nonfarm business sector increased 3-3/4 percent over the four quarters ending in the first quarter, the employment cost index for private workers rose 1-3/4 percent over the 12 months ending in March, and average hourly earnings for all employees increased 2-1/2 percent over the 12 months ending in May.

The unemployment rates for African Americans and for Hispanics stayed above the rate for whites, although the differentials in jobless rates across the different groups were similar to those before the most recent recession. The share of African American and Hispanic workers employed part time for economic reasons remained higher than for whites, and the gap in these rates was wider than in the years just before the most recent recession.

Total industrial production (IP) rose in April, principally reflecting a rebound in the output of utilities following a couple of unseasonably warm winter months as well as a moderate increase in manufacturing production. Meanwhile, mining output continued to contract as a result of further declines in drilling activity, a slower pace of crude oil extraction, and a continued pullback in coal production. A variety of indicators--including manufacturing production worker hours, motor vehicle assemblies, and oil and gas extraction and drilling activity--suggested that IP likely declined in May. Automakers' assembly schedules and mixed readings on other indicators of manufacturing production, such as new orders from national and regional manufacturing surveys, pointed to only subdued gains in factory output over the next few months.

Growth in real personal consumption expenditures (PCE) appeared to be picking up in the second quarter. The components of the nominal retail sales data used by the Bureau of Economic Analysis to construct its estimate of PCE rose at a solid pace in April and May, and sales of light motor vehicles rebounded after dipping in March. The apparent pickup in real PCE growth was consistent with recent readings on key factors that influence consumer spending. Gains in real disposable personal income continued to be solid in March and April, and households' net worth was boosted by further strong increases in home values through April. Also, consumer sentiment as measured by the University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers remained upbeat in early June.

Recent information on housing activity was broadly consistent with a continued gradual recovery in this sector. Starts for new single-family homes increased in April but were below the average pace in the first quarter, and building permit issuance remained essentially flat at the level that prevailed since late last year. The pace of starts for multifamily units moved up in April and was faster than in the first quarter. Sales of both new and existing homes rose in April.

Real private expenditures for business equipment and intellectual property appeared to be relatively flat early in the second quarter after declining sharply in the previous quarter. Nominal shipments of nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft edged up in April, and forward-looking indicators, such as new orders for these capital goods and recent readings from national and regional surveys of business conditions, suggested little change in business equipment spending in the near term. Firms' nominal spending for nonresidential structures excluding drilling and mining was little changed, on net, in March and April. The number of oil and gas rigs in operation, an indicator of spending for structures in the drilling and mining sector, fell through late May but edged up in early June.

Total real government purchases rose modestly in the first quarter and appeared to be increasing at about the same pace in the second quarter. Nominal outlays for defense in April and May pointed to an increase in real federal purchases in the second quarter, after such purchases had declined in the first quarter. In contrast, real state and local government purchases seemed to be edging down in the second quarter; the payrolls of these governments were little changed, on net, in April and May, and their nominal spending for construction declined in April.

The U.S. international trade deficit narrowed substantially in March, with a sharp decline in imports more than offsetting a fall in exports. The March data, together with revised estimates for earlier months, suggested that real exports were about flat in the first quarter while imports fell slightly. In April, the deficit widened as imports recovered somewhat, but it remained narrower than its first-quarter average.

Total U.S. consumer prices, as measured by the PCE price index, increased about 1 percent over the 12 months ending in April, partly restrained by earlier declines in consumer energy prices. Core PCE price inflation, which excludes changes in food and energy prices, was a little above 1-1/2 percent over the same 12-month period, held down in part by decreases in the prices of non-energy imports over much of this period and the pass-through of the declines in energy prices to prices of other goods and services. Over the 12 months ending in April, total consumer prices as measured by the consumer price index (CPI) also rose about 1 percent, while core CPI inflation was a little above 2 percent. The Michigan survey measure of longer-run inflation expectations fell to its lowest level on record in early June, but other measures of such expectations--including those from the Survey of Professional Forecasters and from the Desk's Survey of Primary Dealers and Survey of Market Participants--were generally little changed, on balance, in recent months.

Foreign real GDP growth picked up in the first quarter, supported by relatively robust increases in Canada, the euro area, Japan, and Mexico. However, the pace of growth appeared to slow in many foreign economies in the second quarter, although in some cases as a result of what were likely to be temporary disruptions, including wildfires in Canada and an earthquake in Japan. In the United Kingdom, uncertainty about the outcome of the referendum on exit from the European Union seemed to be holding down investment. In contrast, indicators for emerging Asia, including China, suggested that economic growth picked up in the second quarter. Inflation remained low in the advanced foreign economies (AFEs), in part reflecting previous declines in energy prices. Inflation also continued to be subdued in most emerging market economies (EMEs).