Domestic financial market conditions remained accommodative over the intermeeting period. Equity price indexes and corporate bond spreads were little changed, on net, and, in aggregate, corporations continued to tap credit markets at a solid pace. Credit also remained broadly available to households, except for higher-risk borrowers in some markets. The expected near-term path of the federal funds rate implied by market quotes varied notably over the intermeeting period. On balance, it flattened, largely in response to the disappointing May employment report and growing concerns among investors about the British referendum on membership in the European Union. The flatter expected path of the federal funds rate, along with an apparent decline in global risk sentiment early in the period, contributed to an appreciable reduction in longer-term Treasury yields.

Market-based estimates of the probability of a hike in the federal funds rate at the June FOMC meeting were variable during the intermeeting period. The probability of an increase in June fell to near zero in early May in response to incoming economic data, jumped to about 30 percent after the release of the April FOMC minutes and other Federal Reserve communications, and dropped again to near zero after the May employment report. The expected path of the federal funds rate for the medium term implied by market quotes declined somewhat on net. The average probability assigned by respondents to the Desk's June Survey of Primary Dealers and Survey of Market Participants was near zero for a rate hike in June and around 20 percent for a rate increase in July. The median respondent in each survey indicated that the most likely outcome was only one hike in 2016, down from two in the April surveys.

The nominal Treasury yield curve flattened, on net, over the intermeeting period, mainly reflecting declines in longer-term rates; the flattening left the spread between yields on 2- and 10-year Treasury securities near its lowest level since 2007. Although a significant portion of the declines in yields occurred following the release of the May employment report, yields at longer maturities had begun drifting down earlier in the period, consistent with an apparent deterioration in global risk sentiment. Yields moved lower late in the period amid growing concerns about the upcoming British referendum. Some market participants attributed the decline in Treasury yields in part to heavy demand from foreign investors faced with extraordinarily low yields on foreign sovereign securities. Inflation compensation based on Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities (TIPS) decreased, particularly at longer tenors. Measures of inflation compensation based on inflation swaps also declined, but less than TIPS-based measures, consistent with anecdotal reports suggesting that a portion of the declines in TIPS-based measures might have been driven by elevated demand for longer-term nominal Treasury securities.

Broad stock price indexes moved within narrow ranges but were modestly lower, on net, over the intermeeting period. However, one-month-ahead option-implied volatility on the S&P 500 index--the VIX--rose notably from fairly low levels and ended the period close to its historical median level. Spreads of 10-year triple-B-rated corporate bond yields over those on comparable-maturity Treasury securities were little changed on balance. High-yield spreads widened, mainly for firms outside of the energy sector; spreads on bonds for firms in the energy sector narrowed, likely in response to rising oil prices.

Overall financing conditions for nonfinancial firms improved a bit over the intermeeting period, remaining accommodative. Amid still-low yields, bond issuance by investment-grade corporations rose to a robust pace in May, and speculative-grade issuance also picked up. Growth of commercial and industrial (C&I) loans on banks' books remained strong in April and May, particularly at large banks. Following significant declines in the first quarter of 2016, gross issuance of leveraged loans increased slightly in April and May, as refinancing was reportedly boosted by lower loan spreads. Equity issuance by nonfinancial firms through initial public offerings remained subdued over the intermeeting period. Meanwhile, nonfinancial firms continued to repurchase their shares at a brisk pace in the first quarter, and dividends stayed near record levels.

Recent developments pointed to some decline in the credit quality of nonfinancial firms. The percentage of C&I loans entering delinquency or being charged off increased further in the first quarter, the default rate of corporate bonds moved up in April, and downgrades of nonfinancial bonds significantly outpaced upgrades in May. Expected year-ahead default rates for nonfinancial firms remained moderately elevated relative to previous expansions, while those for oil companies continued to be high.

Financing conditions for commercial real estate remained fairly accommodative. All major categories of commercial real estate loans on banks' books increased briskly during April and May. However, spreads on commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS) stayed elevated, continuing to depress CMBS issuance.

On balance, credit conditions in municipal bond markets continued to be stable. Yield spreads on general obligation municipal bonds were little changed, and gross issuance remained solid. The default by Puerto Rico's Government Development Bank on debt payments due in early May was widely expected and elicited limited reaction in broader municipal bond markets.

Conditions in consumer credit markets were little changed and generally remained accommodative. Consumer loan balances continued to increase at a robust pace in recent months, with year-over-year growth in credit card balances outstanding continuing to trend upward. Credit in mortgage markets stayed tight for borrowers with low credit scores, hard-to-document income, or high debt-to-income ratios. Interest rates on 30-year fixed-rate mortgages declined and continued to be low by historical standards.

Over the intermeeting period, developments in global financial markets were driven in large part by shifting views on the expected path of U.S. monetary policy and by fluctuating expectations about the outcome of the U.K. vote on membership in the European Union. The exchange value of the U.S. dollar rose in the middle of the intermeeting period along with expectations for less accommodative Federal Reserve monetary policy. However, the dollar partially retraced these increases following the much weaker-than-expected U.S. employment report for May, finishing the period a bit stronger against the currencies of the AFEs and about 3 percent higher against EME currencies. In contrast to its changes against most currencies, the dollar depreciated against the Japanese yen, in large part because of the unexpected decision by the Bank of Japan not to ease policy further at its April meeting. AFE sovereign yields declined, with U.K. yields in particular being weighed down following polls showing an increase in support for the "leave" vote in the upcoming referendum. Decreases in equity indexes in the AFEs, particularly in Europe, also reportedly reflected concerns about the possibility of a successful "leave" vote. Most EME equity markets also edged lower.