The manager of the System Open Market Account (SOMA) reported on developments in domestic and foreign financial markets during the period since the Committee met on April 26-27, 2016. Market participants' expectations for a firming of monetary policy at the June FOMC meeting rose considerably in the middle of the period, largely in response to monetary policy communications, but those expectations subsequently fell sharply following the release of labor market data for May. Nominal yields on Treasury securities declined over the period. Forward measures of inflation compensation derived from yields on nominal and inflation-indexed Treasury securities fell despite an appreciable increase in crude oil prices, a development that contrasted with the positive correlation between these variables that had been evident for some time. The manager also noted that bond yields globally had declined to very low levels and discussed some of the possible reasons for the drop. Actions by investors to shift their portfolios away from very low-yielding foreign sovereign debt were cited as adding to the downward pressure on U.S. yields. The manager also reviewed the apparent effects on financial markets of changes in the perceived odds that the United Kingdom would vote in a referendum on June 23 to leave the European Union.

In domestic money markets, the effective federal funds rate once again stayed close to the middle of the FOMC's 1/4 to 1/2 percent target range over the intermeeting period except on month-ends. Usage of the System's overnight reverse repurchase agreement facility remained low. Market participants anticipated that changes to the regulation of money market mutual funds that will take effect later in the year could lead to some increase in usage of the facility. Finally, the manager briefed the Committee on various efforts, including small-value tests of System facilities, to enhance operational readiness.

By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Desk's domestic transactions over the intermeeting period. There were no intervention operations in foreign currencies for the System's account during the intermeeting period.