In the U.S. economic forecast prepared by the staff for the June FOMC meeting, real GDP growth was estimated to have been faster in the first quarter than in the April forecast, and the incoming information was consistent with a moderate pickup in GDP growth in the second quarter. Real GDP was projected to rise a little slower in the second half of this year than in the previous forecast and to increase at about the same pace thereafter; the small boosts to real GDP growth implied by a lower assumed path for interest rates and by a slightly stronger trajectory for home values were essentially offset by restraint from higher projected paths for the foreign exchange value of the dollar and for oil prices. The staff continued to forecast that real GDP would expand at a modestly faster pace than potential output in 2016 through 2018, supported primarily by increases in consumer spending. The unemployment rate was expected to remain relatively flat over the second half of the year and then to gradually decline further; over this period, the unemployment rate was projected to run somewhat below the staff's estimate of its longer-run natural rate.

The staff's forecast for inflation was little changed from the previous projection. The staff continued to project that inflation would increase over the next several years, as energy prices and the prices of non-energy imports were expected to begin steadily rising this year. However, inflation was still projected to be slightly below the Committee's longer-run objective of 2 percent in 2018.

The staff viewed the uncertainty around its April projections for real GDP growth, the unemployment rate, and inflation as similar to the average of the past 20 years. The risks to the forecast for real GDP were seen as tilted to the downside, reflecting the staff's assessment that neither monetary nor fiscal policy was well positioned to help the economy withstand substantial adverse shocks. In addition, the staff continued to see the risks to the forecast from developments abroad as skewed to the downside. Consistent with the downside risks to aggregate demand, the staff viewed the risks to its outlook for the unemployment rate as tilted to the upside. The risks to the projection for inflation were still judged as weighted to the downside, reflecting the possibility that longer-term inflation expectations may have edged down.