The information available at the time of the meeting indicated that real gross domestic product (GDP) had expanded moderately over this year. The unemployment rate had edged up and the pace of payroll employment increases had slowed through September; more recent labor market indicators were consistent with these developments. Consumer price inflation had moved up since earlier in the year and remained somewhat elevated.

The unemployment rate ticked up to 4.4 percent in September, continuing the gradual upward trend seen since the middle of the year. The average monthly pace of total payroll gains continued to be slower in the third quarter than early in the year. Other available labor market indicators—such as initial claims for unemployment insurance benefits, rates of job openings and layoffs, and survey measures of households' and businesses' perceptions of the balance between labor demand and supply—were consistent with a gradual cooling in labor market conditions since September. The employment cost index for total private-sector labor compensation rose 3.5 percent over the 12 months ending in September, and average hourly earnings for all employees increased 3.8 percent over the same 12-month period. Both measures of hourly labor compensation growth were close to their year-earlier rates.

Total consumer price inflation—as measured by the 12‑month change in the price index for personal consumption expenditures (PCE)—was 2.8 percent in September. Core PCE price inflation, which excludes changes in consumer energy prices and many consumer food prices, was also 2.8 percent in September. Both total and core PCE price inflation were somewhat higher than earlier in the year. Core services price inflation had moved down, but core goods price inflation had picked up, which the staff largely attributed to the effects of higher tariffs.

The available indicators suggested that real GDP growth was solid in the third quarter, although the average rate of increase over the first three quarters of the year was moderate and slower than its 2024 pace. Real private domestic final purchases—which comprises PCE and private fixed investment spending and which often provides a better signal of underlying economic momentum than does GDP—appeared to have risen faster than GDP over the first three quarters of the year but also had slowed relative to last year. Real goods imports declined in August, reversing the increase in the preceding month, while real goods exports edged down further. The federal government shutdown was expected to reduce real GDP growth around 1 percentage point in the fourth quarter, with a corresponding boost to output growth in the first quarter of 2026.

Foreign economic activity continued to expand at a below-trend pace in the third quarter, with real GDP having contracted in Mexico and Japan and having grown at only a lackluster pace in Europe. By contrast, economic activity in emerging Asia remained robust amid continued strong external demand for high-tech products and Chinese firms having boosted exports to markets other than the U.S.

Headline inflation continued to run near central bank targets in many foreign economies, aided by declines in global energy prices so far this year. Core inflation, however, remained persistently elevated in some economies. A few foreign central banks reduced their policy rates, including the Bank of Canada and the Bank of Mexico, with most others leaving them unchanged.