Over the intermeeting period, both the market-implied expected path of the federal funds rate and nominal Treasury yields edged up on net. Changes in nominal yields reflected increases in real yields, while inflation compensation declined a bit, especially at shorter horizons. Broad equity prices were little changed. While the one-month option-implied volatility on the S&P 500 index at one point reached its highest level since early April, it ended the period roughly unchanged. Investment- and speculative-grade corporate bond spreads increased somewhat but remained at low levels.

In foreign financial markets, longer-term yields increased notably over the intermeeting period because of various country-specific factors, including stronger-than-expected employment gains in Canada and rising odds of further monetary policy tightening and fiscal expansion in Japan. In addition, in the euro area, stronger-than-expected data on economic activity and European Central Bank communications regarded as signaling less accommodative policy contributed to rising yields. Foreign equity indexes and the broad dollar index were little changed, on net, over the intermeeting period.

Conditions in U.S. short-term funding markets remained orderly but were generally tighter over the intermeeting period. In secured markets, liquidity conditions were tighter, on average, amid robust Treasury issuance, declining reserve balances in recent months, and month-end pressures. Over the intermeeting period, the average level of reserve balances was around $2.9 trillion, about $500 billion lower relative to the level of reserve balances at the start of the Federal Reserve's balance sheet reductions in June 2022.

In domestic credit markets, conditions for businesses, households, and municipalities were little changed on balance. Financing conditions remained somewhat restrictive for households and small businesses. Meanwhile, large and midsize businesses continued to access credit markets at a solid pace. Credit performance was largely unchanged, with delinquency rates for small businesses, commercial real estate (CRE), and consumer loans remaining elevated. Yields on corporate bonds increased somewhat. Rates on 30-year fixed-rate conforming residential mortgages, as well as yields on non-agency commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS), rose moderately.

Credit remained generally available to most businesses, households, and municipalities. Bank loans expanded at a solid pace, and issuance in public and private credit markets was strong, as relatively high interest rates did not appear to significantly restrain borrowing in these markets. By contrast, indicators of credit growth for households and small businesses remained sluggish amid high borrowing costs.

Credit performance was little changed in most markets, and credit quality for corporate bonds and leveraged loans had not shown signs of deterioration following two high-profile bankruptcy filings in the fall. There were no nonfinancial corporate bond defaults in September or October, bringing the 12-month trailing default rate below the 35th percentile of its post–Global Financial Crisis distribution. The 12-month trailing default rate for leveraged loans declined a bit in October but remained at an elevated level. Delinquency rates on CRE loans at banks were largely unchanged in the third quarter and remained above pre-pandemic levels, while CMBS delinquency rates had moved sideways since the beginning of the year. Measures of credit performance for household debt were little changed recently.