The Chair, Vice Chair Williams, and Governor Clarida opened the meeting with remarks in memory of Thomas Laubach.

Chair Powell:

"Thomas was unquestionably one of the great economic minds of his generation, and his research has been central to some of our biggest discussions and policy actions over the past several years. He had a rare and underappreciated gift for translating arcane and academic theory into real world practice. That ability made a real difference in the conduct and communication of monetary policy. From his work on r*, to the balance sheet, to leading the steering committee for our monetary policy review, Thomas Laubach's intellectual fingerprints are all over the Committee's decisions that will define this era of the Federal Reserve. Thomas was also an exceptional colleague, leader, and friend. No one here will be surprised to know that as condolences pour in, the admiration for his kindness and equanimity match, if not exceed, the esteem for his intellect. Thomas was a model of leadership who fiercely believed that every member of his team is critical to our collective success, and he made certain they knew it. Even as he battled his own health problems, working through treatment to help fight the economic fallout of a global pandemic, his concern lay with others. Amid a deluge of emergency work to fight a historic downturn and the upending of daily life, Thomas urged people to take care of themselves and their families first. It is a testament to the mutual respect and amity that it was Thomas's team who proposed the Tealbook dedication in his memory. As friends, colleagues, and collaborators, we all grieve his loss. His absence leaves a space that cannot truly be filled. We will miss Thomas Laubach's intellect and his insight. More importantly, we will miss Thomas Laubach."

Vice Chair Williams:

"Thomas and I started working together 20 years ago. He had just arrived at the Board from the Kansas City Fed, and I had returned from my stint at the Council of Economic Advisers. And it was truly serendipitous. We immediately recognized the shared interest in figuring out how to estimate this thing called the natural rate of interest. And more importantly, Thomas was an expert in Kalman filtering. So we were off to the races on that project. Ironically, given subsequent events, the question of the time was whether the productivity boom had driven r* higher. In fact, if you go back to our December 2000 memo, our first memo to the Board on r*, our original estimates had r* at 4-1/4 percent, and that's real, not nominal. So that's a 6-1/4 percent nominal r*. Those were the days. Jumping ahead 15 years, following his appointment as Director of Monetary Affairs, Thomas would frequently, and very earnestly, ask me how he could be most effective in his role as an adviser to the FOMC. And I'd remind him that the Committee has at times been compared to a herd of cats. But he was always looking for ways to raise his game, and hopefully ours, and help the Committee grapple with issues and decisions before us. Sometimes that effort led to briefings with a labyrinth of charts and figures, where Thomas heroically tried to make sense of our Summary of Economic Projections (SEP) projections and the implicit policy rule that must be embedded in them if you only looked hard enough. Or it goes without saying how everything makes more sense once you factor in r*. His role as trusted adviser was never more on display or important than during the framework review as Chair Powell just commented. Thomas focused on making sure the Committee was prepared with the very best information and analysis. He consistently moved us towards the goal line, even as he engaged in a complex range of issues and dealt with the effects of the pandemic. And he scrupulously played the role of honest broker throughout. Indeed, he perfected the formula for herding cats. It's one part keen intellect, a dollop of understated humor, and a big helping of patience and perseverance."

Governor Clarida:

"Thomas Laubach was a remarkable human being who just happened to be a world class economist. His passing last week represents of course an incalculable loss for his family, but is also a devastating blow felt by each and every one of us in the Federal Reserve System, and indeed, in major central banks around the world that he frequently visited. Before I arrived at the Board, I knew Thomas primarily through his research. His book on inflation targeting with Ben Bernanke, Rick Mishkin, and Adam Posen is a classic reference on the subject, as is his work with President Williams on r*. I would say Thomas had a talent for picking co-authors. Thomas and I first met when he was a Ph.D. student working on the book and we were both visiting the New York Fed. I remember well our first meeting 25 years ago, and I was struck then by Thomas's enthusiasm that he brought to economics as a graduate student. Thomas of course never lost that spark and joy for the practice of monetary policy, and we are all fortunate that he did not. I—and I'm sure Chair Powell, and before him, Chair Yellen—trusted him implicitly. And speaking for myself, I always sought his insight and advice privately in my office and counsel on all of the big policy decisions I've had to consider in my two years as Vice Chair. Thomas made everyone that he worked with better and inspired to put forth their best energy and effort to achieve larger goals. That was most certainly the case in the framework review, and I'll second what Vice Chair Williams and Chair Powell said. Thomas brought peerless leadership, energy, and a commitment to the entire framework review. We simply would not have achieved the evolution of our framework and strategy without Thomas and the insight, inspiration, and good judgment he brought to the project and the ambitious process that he designed and worked with us to implement. I understand that in Thomas's last days, he was able to watch the Chair's speech at Jackson Hole rolling out the new framework, and that he was so proud to have been part of what the Wall Street Journal called a landmark change in U.S. monetary policy. I'm sure I speak for all of us when I conclude by saying that it is we who are proud to have had the privilege of working with Thomas Laubach during his 20 years at the Fed. He is and will be deeply missed, but his spirit and inspiration to us all will endure."