The near-term projection for U.S. economic activity prepared by the staff for the January FOMC meeting was weaker than in December, reflecting the sharp rise in COVID-19 infections caused by the rapid spread of the Omicron variant and an assessment that supply constraints would resolve more slowly than previously expected. Although real GDP still appeared to have posted a sizable gain in the fourth quarter of 2021, output growth was expected to slow noticeably in the first quarter of 2022 before picking up again later in the year as COVID-19 cases declined and supply issues continued to be resolved. With most of the boost to growth from the reopening of the economy and easing of supply constraints expected to occur in 2022, real GDP growth was projected to step down in 2023 and to be roughly in line with potential growth in 2023 and 2024. However, the level of real GDP was expected to remain well above potential throughout the projection period, and labor market conditions were expected to remain very tight.

The staff's near-term projection for PCE price inflation was revised up relative to December in response to the anticipated slower resolution of supply issues. In particular, the staff continued to expect that monthly inflation rates would move lower as supply constraints eased, but the projected step-down was less pronounced than in the December forecast. Even so, an improvement in supply conditions and a decline in consumer energy prices were expected to slow PCE price inflation to 2.6 percent in 2022. With supply conditions expected to normalize further but with the labor market expected to remain very tight, PCE price inflation was projected to decline to 2 percent in 2023 before edging up to 2.1 percent in 2024.

The staff continued to judge that the risks to the baseline projection for economic activity were skewed to the downside and that the risks to the inflation projection were skewed to the upside. In particular, the possibility that the economic effects of the virus would turn out to be larger than assumed in the baseline projection was viewed as an important source of downside risk to activity, while the possibility of more severe and more persistent supply issues was viewed as an additional downside risk to activity and as an upside risk to inflation.