The information available at the time of the January 25–26 meeting suggested that U.S. real gross domestic product (GDP) growth had picked up in the fourth quarter after slowing in the third quarter. Labor market conditions improved further in December, and indicators of labor compensation continued to show robust increases. Consumer price inflation through November—as measured by the 12-month percentage change in the price index for personal consumption expenditures (PCE)—remained elevated.

Total nonfarm payroll employment posted a moderate gain in December. The unemployment rate declined from 4.2 percent in November to 3.9 percent in December. The unemployment rate for African Americans moved higher, and the Hispanic unemployment rate declined; both rates remained well above the national average. The labor force participation rate was unchanged in December, and the employment-to-population ratio moved up. The private-sector job openings rate, as measured by the Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey, moved down in November but remained well above pre-pandemic levels; the quits rate was also elevated. Weekly estimates of private-sector payrolls, constructed by the Board's staff using data provided by the payroll processor ADP that were available through the first half of January, pointed to a slower pace of private employment gains relative to December. Average hourly earnings rose at an annual rate of 6.2 percent over the last three months of the year; although wage increases were widespread across industries, they were particularly notable in the leisure and hospitality sector as well as the transportation and warehousing sector.

Inflation readings remained high, and various indicators suggested that inflationary pressures had broadened over the second half of 2021. Total PCE price inflation was 5.7 percent over the 12 months ending in November, and core PCE price inflation, which excludes changes in consumer energy prices and many consumer food prices, was 4.7 percent over the same period. The trimmed mean measure of 12-month PCE inflation constructed by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas was 2.8 percent in November, 1 percentage point higher than its year-earlier rate of increase. In December, the 12-month change in the consumer price index (CPI) was 7.0 percent, while core CPI inflation was 5.5 percent over the same period. The staff's common inflation expectations index, which combines information from many indicators of inflation expectations and inflation compensation, had largely leveled off over the fall and was close to its 2014 average.

Real PCE was unchanged in November, and available indicators—including the components of the nominal retail sales data used to estimate PCE—pointed to a decline in December, possibly reflecting the sharp rise in COVID-19 cases in the second half of that month as well as some holiday sales having been pulled forward to earlier months. Housing demand remained strong, and available indicators suggested that residential investment increased in the fourth quarter. However, shortages of construction materials, buildable lots, and other inputs continued to weigh on activity in this sector.

Business fixed investment appeared to post only a small gain in the fourth quarter, as investment in transportation equipment was held back by supply bottlenecks and limited supplies of construction materials restrained nonresidential structures investment.

Manufacturing output moved down in December after advancing strongly in October and November. Motor vehicle assemblies reversed some of their November increase; in addition, manufacturing production outside of motor vehicles ticked lower.

Total real government purchases appeared to have fallen in the fourth quarter. Al­though available data suggested that real federal purchases rose, indicators of real state and local government purchases pointed to a decline in the fourth quarter despite state and local governments' extremely strong budget positions and the widespread return to in-person schooling last fall.

The U.S. international trade deficit widened at the end of last year. Imports of goods rose sharply in November and December, led by increases in consumer goods, while exports of goods were little changed over the two months, on net, after surging in October. Shipping congestion and other bottlenecks continued to restrain the level of trade in goods. Meanwhile, services exports jumped in November, reflecting a sizable increase in exports of travel services after the reopening of U.S. borders to vaccinated foreign travelers early in the month. Even so, services trade was very low relative to pre-pandemic norms, largely because the level of international travel remained depressed.

Incoming data suggested that foreign economic growth picked up in the fourth quarter of 2021 as economies in emerging Asia bounced back from lockdowns in the third quarter induced by the Delta variant of the COVID-19 virus. Purchasing managers indexes (PMIs) pointed to improved supplier delivery times, and foreign vehicle production rose notably, suggesting that supply bottlenecks continued to ease somewhat. However, the rapid spread of the Omicron variant led to renewed public health restrictions in several countries, particularly in China, and appeared to be weighing on activity at the start of the year. Inflation abroad continued to rise, mostly driven by further increases in retail energy prices, effects from supply bottlenecks, and, in some emerging market economies (EMEs), by rising food prices. That said, input and output price components of PMIs provided some tentative signs that easing supply constraints have started to contribute to some letup in inflationary pressures in several foreign economies.