Over the intermeeting period, easing concerns around the economic effects of the Omicron variant and FOMC communications that were viewed as less accommodative than expected contributed to increases in Treasury yields. Long-term sovereign yields in AFEs also rose notably. Broad domestic equity indexes decreased markedly, and spreads of corporate bonds widened modestly. Short-term funding markets were stable, while participation in the overnight reverse repurchase agreement (ON RRP) facility increased further. Market-based financing conditions remained accommodative, and bank lending standards eased for most loan categories.

The expected path for the federal funds rate over the next few years—implied by a straight read of overnight index swap quotes—rose notably since the December FOMC meeting, apparently reflecting less-accommodative-than-expected FOMC communications and an easing of concerns around the economic effects of the Omicron variant. Those factors also contributed to notable rises in 2-, 5-, and 10-year nominal Treasury yields. Inflation compensation implied by Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities rose slightly, on net.

Broad equity indexes decreased markedly, on net, particularly in the latter part of the intermeeting period, as shifts in expectations about the pace of monetary policy tightening, global inflationary pressures, and escalating tensions between Russia and Ukraine weighed on equity prices. The one-month option-implied volatility on the S&P 500—the VIX—increased considerably, on net, to above the 90th percentile of its historical distribution. Spreads of investment- and speculative-grade corporate bonds widened modestly. Spreads of municipal bonds were roughly unchanged.

Short-term funding markets were stable over the intermeeting period. The effective federal funds rate and the Secured Overnight Financing Rate generally held steady at 8 basis points and 5 basis points, respectively. Participation in ON RRP operations averaged $1.6 trillion, about $150 billion higher than during the previous intermeeting period, and reached an all-time high of $1.9 trillion at year-end. Government money market funds continued to receive investment inflows and accounted for the majority of ON RRP take-up.

Over the intermeeting period, movements in foreign asset prices responded to waning concerns about the Omicron variant's potential economic effects and firming views that monetary accommodation in several advanced economies will be removed at a faster pace than previously expected. Some market participants also pointed to rising geopolitical tensions related to Russia as contributing to the moves. On net, AFE sovereign yields increased notably, most major foreign equity indexes declined moderately, and the broad dollar index decreased modestly. EME sovereign spreads widened, and capital flows into EME-dedicated bond funds remained slightly negative, while flows into EME equity funds turned positive.

In domestic credit markets, financing conditions for nonfinancial firms remained broadly accommodative. Gross issuance of corporate bonds and leveraged loans remained solid but slowed somewhat in December, reflecting seasonal factors. Equity funding raised through initial public offerings continued at a strong pace in November and December, while equity issuance through special purpose acquisition companies remained muted relative to earlier in 2021.

Commercial and industrial (C&I) loans expanded over the fourth quarter following more than a year of declines. In the January Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices (SLOOS), banks reported easier standards and stronger demand for C&I loans over the fourth quarter.

The credit quality of large nonfinancial corporations remained strong over the intermeeting period. The volumes of nonfinancial corporate bond and leveraged loan upgrades exceeded those of downgrades in November and December. Trailing default rates on nonfinancial bonds edged down further to historical lows, while market indicators of future expected default rates remained benign and historically low.

In the municipal bond market, financing conditions remained accommodative, as municipal bond yields stayed near historical lows. Issuance of municipal debt was strong in November and December. The credit quality of municipal debt remained stable, and the volume of defaults stayed low.

Financing conditions for small businesses eased a bit over the intermeeting period. In the January SLOOS, small banks reported easing C&I loan standards to small firms over the fourth quarter. Loan originations to small businesses rose in November to near pre-pandemic levels. Banks in the January SLOOS reported stronger loan demand by small firms over the fourth quarter, though loan demand remained weak overall.

Commercial real estate (CRE) loan balances on banks' books expanded at a solid pace in the fourth quarter, and, in the January SLOOS, banks reported an easing of standards on such loans amid stronger demand for most CRE loan categories. Issuance of non-agency commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS) surged in the fourth quarter, while issuance of agency CMBS slowed. Delinquency rates on mortgages in CMBS pools continued to fall but remained elevated for hotel and retail mortgages.

In the residential mortgage market, financing conditions remained accommodative, particularly for borrowers who met standard conforming loan criteria. In the January SLOOS, banks reported easing lending standards for most mortgage categories in the fourth quarter. Mortgage rates increased over the intermeeting period in line with rates on agency MBS and 10-year Treasury securities but remained low by historical standards. The fraction of mortgage borrowers missing payments continued to decline through November.

Financing conditions for consumer credit remained accommodative for most borrowers, especially those with higher credit scores. Lending standards for nonprime consumers in the credit card market continued to ease from the tight levels seen earlier in the pandemic. Banks reported in the January SLOOS that demand for credit card loans strengthened over the fourth quarter, while lending standards eased for auto loans amid a weakening in demand. With sales running low because of constrained supply, auto loan growth continued to slow in October and November from the more rapid pace recorded in the first half of the year.

The staff provided an update on its assessments of the stability of the financial system and, on balance, characterized the financial vulnerabilities of the U.S. financial system as notable. The staff judged that asset valuation pressures remained elevated. In particular, the forward price-to-earnings ratio for the S&P 500 index stood at the upper end of its historical distribution; high-yield corporate bond spreads and the excess loan premium for leveraged loans remained at low levels; and house prices grew strongly, with price-to-rent ratios that were at elevated levels. The staff noted that the market capitalization of crypto-assets had grown significantly over the past decade and had experienced considerable volatility, including sizable declines since late last year. The staff changed its assessment of vulnerabilities associated with nonfinancial leverage from notable to moderate, noting that measures of business leverage had declined to pre-pandemic levels. Household delinquency rates remained relatively low, while household borrowing rose but was concentrated among prime borrowers. Vulnerabilities arising from financial leverage remained moderate. Risk-based capital ratios for banks remained above their pre-pandemic levels even after the resumption of shareholder payouts. In contrast, some available measures of hedge fund leverage continued to increase, and important data gaps continued to limit a full assessment of vulnerabilities posed by many nonbank financial institutions. Vulnerabilities associated with funding risks were characterized as moderate. Prime and tax-exempt money funds continued to have structural vulnerabilities that may lead investors to withdraw funds quickly in a stress situation and were a potential source of spillovers to other short-term funding markets. In response, the Securities and Exchange Commission proposed reforms in December 2021 to make these funds more resilient. Another vulnerability in funding markets was the significant growth in stablecoin arrangements over the past few years, which may increase challenges related to run risk and pose additional risks from their potential role as a means of payment.