The manager turned first to a review of domestic financial market developments over the intermeeting period. Treasury yields rose across the curve, led by higher real yields. Expectations for tighter monetary policy ahead, as well as an easing of COVID-related concerns, were cited as contributing to the increase in yields. The S&P 500 index declined around 5 percent, with sharp moves toward the end of the period, reportedly prompted by concerns about the implications of a tighter path of monetary policy and rising geopolitical risks.

Regarding the monetary policy outlook, with data showing continuing tightening of labor market conditions and elevated inflationary pressures, policymaker communications were perceived as pointing to an earlier and faster removal of accommodation than market participants had previously expected. Against this backdrop, respondents to the Open Market Desk's surveys of primary dealers and market participants almost uniformly projected that the Federal Reserve's net asset purchases would end by mid-March. The median survey projection for the commencement of balance sheet runoff shifted into the third quarter of this year, roughly a year and a half sooner than in the December surveys. Most survey respondents also expected the portfolio to decline at a significantly faster pace than they did in December.

Expectations for the path of the federal funds rate shifted toward earlier rate increases, and interest rate futures priced in an increase in the target range for the federal funds rate at the March FOMC meeting. On average, respondents to the Desk surveys assigned a roughly 70 percent probability to an increase in the target range in March. The expected path of the federal funds rate in the Desk surveys and derived from interest rate futures also steepened over the period. The median survey projection for the most likely level of the target range at the end of 2024 was about 2 percent, similar to December. Nonetheless, survey respondents attached significant probability to outcomes in which the target range moved up more than indicated by the projected modal path.

Changing views about the likely path of the Federal Reserve's balance sheet following the release of the December FOMC minutes seemed to affect longer-term yields. Far forward real yields moved higher over the period, with much of the increase following the release of the minutes for the December FOMC meeting. In addition, agency mortgage-backed securities (MBS) spreads widened notably after having been stable at low levels for the past year, reportedly driven by expectations for an earlier and faster runoff of agency MBS than had been expected.

The manager turned next to a discussion of international financial market developments. Sovereign yields increased across advanced foreign economies (AFEs), reportedly driven by receding concerns about the Omicron variant, elevated inflation readings, and, relatedly, expectations that central banks would remove policy accommodation sooner than had been expected. Several central banks concluded their net asset purchases late last year, and more were expected to do so this year. On the outlook for policy rates, several central banks had either already increased their policy rates or were expected to do so later this year.

The manager provided an update on issues related to monetary policy implementation. Reductions in the pace of the Committee's net asset purchases had proceeded smoothly to date and functioning in Treasury and agency MBS markets remained stable. Regarding the potential for the Committee to reduce System Open Market Account (SOMA) holdings in the future, market participants generally anticipated that SOMA redemptions could proceed smoothly at a somewhat faster pace than during the previous period of balance sheet reduction from 2017 to 2019. However, some also noted that SOMA redemptions would require significant adjustments to private-sector balance sheets, as investors absorb the net increase in Treasury and agency MBS issuance to the private sector and money markets transition to lower levels of liquidity, and that these adjustments could take some time.

The manager discussed expectations for the evolution of the Federal Reserve's administered rates in connection with a potential future change in the target range for the federal funds rate. The Desk survey responses suggested expectations for administered rates to be raised by the same increment as the target range for the federal funds rate. The manager noted that the current setting of administered rates relative to the target range had been working well and anticipated that it could continue to support effective policy implementation following any increase in the target range in coming months, al­though adjustments could be warranted over time.

By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Desk's domestic transactions over the intermeeting period. No intervention operations occurred in foreign currencies for the System's account during the intermeeting period.