Participants continued their discussion of topics associated with potential adjustments in the Committee's policy tools that may be appropriate to support the achievement of sustained strong labor market conditions and a return of inflation to levels consistent with the Committee's longer-run 2 percent objective under a wide range of circumstances. At this meeting, participants discussed high-level principles that could be released to the public to describe the Committee's approach for reducing the size of the Federal Reserve's balance sheet. They agreed that the principles would address, at a high level, the sequence of adjustments in the interest rate and balance sheet tools to reduce policy accommodation, the Committee's approach to balance sheet runoff, and its intentions for the longer-run size and composition of the balance sheet. The participants' discussion was preceded by a staff presentation that reviewed key considerations raised by participants at the December FOMC meeting and examined how the proposed set of principles, which reflected those considerations, compared with the Policy Normalization Principles and Plans issued in 2014.

In their discussion, participants reaffirmed that changes in the target range for the federal funds rate are the Committee's primary means for adjusting the stance of monetary policy, as noted in the Committee's Statement on Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy. Participants judged that the timing and pace of balance sheet reduction would be determined so as to promote the Committee's maximum-employment and price-stability goals and that it would be appropriate to begin the process of reducing the size of the balance sheet after the process of increasing the target range for the federal funds rate has begun. While participants agreed that details on the timing and pace of balance sheet runoff would be determined at upcoming meetings, participants generally noted that current economic and financial conditions would likely warrant a faster pace of balance sheet runoff than during the period of balance sheet reduction from 2017 to 2019. Participants observed that, in light of the current high level of the Federal Reserve's securities holdings, a significant reduction in the size of the balance sheet would likely be appropriate. Participants noted that the level of securities holdings consistent with implementing monetary policy efficiently and effectively in an ample reserves regime was uncertain and probably would remain so. Consequently, market conditions would have to be monitored closely to determine the appropriate longer-run level of reserves and the size of the balance sheet.

Participants agreed that the Committee should reduce the Federal Reserve's securities holdings over time in a predictable manner primarily by adjusting the amounts reinvested of principal payments received from securities held in the SOMA. They also agreed that the SOMA should hold primarily Treasury securities in the longer run. Regarding these two principles, many participants commented that sales of agency MBS or reinvesting some portion of principal payments received from agency MBS into Treasury securities may be appropriate at some point in the future to enable suitable progress toward a longer-run SOMA portfolio composition consisting primarily of Treasury securities.

Participants agreed that it was appropriate at this time for the Committee to publish its high-level principles for reducing the size of the Federal Reserve's balance sheet. They also agreed that it was important for the Committee to retain the flexibility to adjust any of the details of its approach in light of changing economic and financial conditions. Participants noted that the principles would serve as an important guide in future deliberations on balance sheet reduction. While no decisions regarding specific details for reducing the size of the balance sheet were made at this meeting, participants agreed to continue their discussions at upcoming meetings.

Following the conclusion of the discussion, all participants supported the proposed principles for reducing the size of the balance sheet. The Committee voted unanimously to adopt the Principles for Reducing the Size of the Federal Reserve's Balance Sheet, as shown below.

PRINCIPLES FOR REDUCING THE SIZE OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE'S BALANCE SHEET (As adopted effective January 25, 2022)

The Federal Open Market Committee agreed that it is appropriate at this time to provide information regarding its planned approach for significantly reducing the size of the Federal Reserve's balance sheet. All participants agreed on the following elements: