The economic forecast prepared by the staff for the December meeting was broadly similar to the projection for the previous meeting. The staff continued to expect that GDP growth would slow markedly in the fourth quarter from its outsized third-quarter rate but that economic growth for 2023 as a whole would still be solid. The lagged effects of earlier monetary policy actions, through their contributions to continued tight financial and credit conditions, were expected to show through more fully in restraining economic activity in the coming years. Real GDP was projected to increase more slowly than the staff's estimate of potential over the next two years before rising in line with potential in 2026. The unemployment rate was expected to be roughly flat through 2026 as the effects of below-potential output growth were offset by the effects of further improvements in labor market functioning.

The staff revised down their inflation forecast, reflecting lower-than-expected incoming data—including the November CPI and producer price index—and their judgment that inflation would be less persistent than in the previous projection. Measured on a four-quarter change basis, total PCE price inflation was expected to be somewhat below 3 percent this year, with core PCE price inflation somewhat above 3 percent. Inflation was projected to move lower in coming years as demand and supply in product and labor markets moved into better alignment; by 2026, total and core PCE price inflation were expected to be close to 2 percent.

The staff continued to view uncertainty around the baseline projection as elevated, al­though they observed that the volatility of incoming data and staff forecast errors generally had become less pronounced over the past year. Risks around the inflation forecast were seen as skewed to the upside, given that inflation was still elevated and the possibility that inflation might prove to be more persistent than expected or that adverse shocks to supply conditions might occur. The risks around the forecast for economic activity were viewed to be tilted to the downside. In particular, the additional monetary policy tightening that could be put in place if upside inflation risks were to materialize, with the potential for a greater tightening of financial conditions, represented a downside risk to the projection for economic activity.