The manager turned first to a review of developments in financial markets over the intermeeting period. Financial conditions eased, driven by a decline in interest rates, an increase in equity prices, and a depreciation in the dollar. The rise in equity prices was supported by the decline in Treasury yields and by earnings growth that exceeded consensus expectations. Implied volatility for equities diminished notably. The easing in financial conditions reversed some of the tightening that occurred over the summer and much of the fall.

Yields on nominal Treasury securities declined sharply over the intermeeting period—more so at longer maturities—after having increased notably during the previous intermeeting period, as investors appeared to interpret incoming data as reducing risks of prolonged inflation pressures. In addition, market participants interpreted communications from FOMC participants as solidifying the view that the Committee's policy rate may be at its peak. Early in the period, the market also reacted to communications from the Treasury Department indicating that issuance of Treasury securities was likely to be more skewed toward shorter-dated maturities than previously expected. Models, on average, suggested that about two-thirds of the decline in longer-term yields on Treasury securities over the period was attributable to a reduction in term premiums and about one-third to a decline in expectations for the policy rate. Pricing of inflation derivatives over the intermeeting period suggested that investors had become more optimistic about the near-term outlook for inflation.

The manager turned next to expectations for monetary policy. Respondents to the Open Market Desk's Survey of Primary Dealers and Survey of Market Participants largely converged around the view that the peak level of the federal funds rate for this tightening cycle had been reached. The modal path from the Desk surveys suggested that the first reduction in the policy rate would occur in June, unchanged from the October surveys. The average path for the policy rate implied by market pricing shifted down considerably over the period.

Regarding developments in money markets and Desk operations, usage of the overnight reverse repurchase agreement (ON RRP) facility continued to fall over the period; take-up at the facility had dropped about $1.3 trillion since early June. The decline was again driven primarily by lower participation by money market mutual funds, as such funds found it more attractive to invest in Treasury bills and, increasingly, the private market for repurchase agreement (repo) transactions.

Overnight repo rates continued to experience some modest upward pressure over the period. As reflected by a rise in the Secured Overnight Financing Rate, there was some tightening of conditions in repo markets in late November and early December in response to typical lending dynamics around month-end, the settlement of a large amount of Treasury issuance, and increased demand for Treasury financing. The market absorbed this episode well.

The manager expected that private-market repo rates would likely remain above the rate offered at the ON RRP facility, which should continue to induce a reduction in usage of the facility. Respondents to the Desk surveys again reduced their expectations for the trajectory for ON RRP balances and correspondingly raised their expectations for the trajectory of reserve balances. Aggregate reserves across the banking system remained abundant, and no signs of pressures were evident. As part of their ongoing market surveillance, the staff will continue to monitor a wide range of indicators of money market conditions, including the composition of borrowers in money markets, borrowing demand for various sources of liquidity, the distribution of reserve balances across the financial system, the pricing of money market investments relative to the Federal Reserve's administered rates, and the sensitivity of money market rates to changes in aggregate reserves.

By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Desk's domestic transactions over the intermeeting period. There were no intervention operations in foreign currencies for the System's account during the intermeeting period.