Over the intermeeting period, some softer-than-expected data releases appeared to lessen the perception among investors that policy may need to tighten further in order to bring inflation down to 2 percent over time. Market participants also viewed monetary policy communications, on balance, as pointing to somewhat less restrictive policy than expected. As a result, nominal Treasury yields declined significantly and the expected market-implied path for the federal funds rate beyond the next few months shifted downward. Meanwhile, broad equity price indexes were boosted by many of the same factors that lowered Treasury yields, and spreads on investment- and speculative-grade corporate bonds narrowed. Financing conditions remained moderately restrictive, as borrowing costs remained elevated despite declining over the intermeeting period.

The market-implied path for the federal funds rate beyond the next few months moved down notably over the intermeeting period. A straight read of federal funds futures rates suggested that market participants expected the federal funds rate to be 25 basis points below its current level by the May 2024 FOMC meeting, two meetings earlier than at the time of the October–November FOMC meeting. The policy rate path implied by overnight index swap quotes moved down 45 basis points to 4.2 percent by the end of 2024. Similarly, nominal Treasury yields declined significantly. The decline in nominal yields mostly reflected a decrease in real yields, while measures of inflation compensation were moderately lower, on net, amid softer-than-expected data releases. Measures of uncertainty about the path of interest rates decreased notably, consistent with the tempering of concerns about inflation, but remained elevated by historical standards.

Broad stock price indexes increased markedly over the intermeeting period, and spreads on investment-grade bonds narrowed moderately, while those on speculative-grade corporate bonds declined more notably. The one-month option-implied volatility on the S&P 500 decreased moderately and reached its lowest level since January 2020.

Spillovers from falling U.S. yields, below-expectations readings on global inflation, and oil price drops led to large declines in foreign yields. These declines were accompanied by an improvement in market sentiment, with foreign equity prices increasing, foreign credit spreads narrowing, and outflows from funds investing in emerging market economies slowing notably. The improvement in sentiment and declines in U.S. yields contributed to a broad depreciation of the foreign exchange value of the dollar.

Conditions in U.S. short-term funding markets remained largely stable over the intermeeting period. Usage of the ON RRP facility continued to decline over the period. The decline in usage primarily reflected money market mutual funds reallocating their assets to Treasury bills and private-market repo, which offered slightly more attractive market rates relative to the ON RRP rate amid continued increases in net Treasury bill issuance and Federal Reserve balance sheet reduction. Banks' total deposit levels were roughly unchanged over the intermeeting period, as outflows of core deposits were about offset by inflows of large time deposits.

In domestic credit markets, borrowing costs for most businesses, households, and municipalities declined over the intermeeting period, reflecting both lower longer-maturity Treasury yields and narrower credit spreads, al­though borrowing costs remained significantly elevated. Rates on loans to households, including those for 30-year conforming residential mortgages and new auto loans, declined over the intermeeting period, while interest rates on commercial and industrial (C&I) loans and small business loans were little changed. Yields on corporate bonds fell more than Treasury yields, particularly for speculative-grade bonds.

Bank credit conditions appeared to tighten somewhat over the intermeeting period, but credit to businesses and households generally remained accessible. C&I loan balances contracted through November, on balance, while expansion of commercial real estate (CRE) loans stepped down appreciably across most categories from an already moderating pace in the third quarter.

Credit remained available for most consumers, al­though consumer credit flows softened in recent months. Growth of credit card balances moderated significantly through November from the brisk pace seen in the summer. For residential real estate borrowers, credit availability was little changed. Credit conditions for small businesses appeared to have tightened further in recent months. Data from the Federal Reserve's Small Business Lending Survey showed that originations had been roughly flat since mid-2022 before ticking down in the third quarter. Credit continued to be generally accessible through capital markets, al­though issuance was slow in many markets, including those for corporate bonds, leveraged loans, and agency and non-agency commercial mortgage-based securities (CMBS).

Credit quality remained broadly solid but deteriorated further for some sectors in recent months. Delinquency rates on nonfarm nonresidential CRE bank loans rose further in the third quarter, and delinquency rates for construction and land development as well as multifamily loans ticked up. After increases over the first three quarters of the year, delinquency rates for loans in CMBS pools edged lower in October, but the large volume of loans scheduled to mature over the next few quarters suggested that delinquencies would likely surge again. The delinquency rate for small business loans continued to tick up in September and was above levels observed just before the pandemic. Credit card delinquency rates also increased further, while delinquency rates on auto loans were little changed in the third quarter. The trailing default rates for investment- and speculative-grade corporate bonds were little changed on net, and the trailing default rate for leveraged loans increased a bit.