The data available at the time of the December 12–13 meeting suggested that growth in U.S. real gross domestic product (GDP) was slowing from its strong third-quarter pace. Labor market conditions continued to be tight, with moderating but still-strong job gains and a low unemployment rate. Consumer price inflation had eased over the past year but remained elevated.

Labor demand and supply continued to move gradually into better alignment. Total nonfarm payroll employment expanded at a slower pace, on balance, over October and November than its average monthly rate in the third quarter. The unemployment rate was little changed, on net, and stood at 3.7 percent in November, the same as its third-quarter average. The labor force participation rate was essentially flat over the past two months, remaining above its level early in the year, while the employment-to-population ratio rose slightly on balance. The unemployment rates for African Americans and for Hispanics were little changed, and both rates were higher than those for Asians and for Whites. The job openings rate continued to trend down, and the quits rate was flat; both rates were below their levels earlier this year. The lessening of labor market imbalances was apparent in recent wage data, as the 12‑month change in average hourly earnings for all employees was well below its year-earlier level and the Wage Growth Tracker constructed by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta was trending down and lower than a year ago.

Consumer price inflation remained elevated but continued to show notable signs of easing. The price index for total personal consumption expenditures (PCE) increased 3.0 percent over the 12 months ending in October, while core PCE inflation—which excludes changes in energy prices and many consumer food prices—was 3.5 percent over the same period; both total and core PCE inflation were well below their year-earlier levels. The six-month change measures of total and core PCE inflation in October were each 2.5 percent, down from their levels six months earlier. The trimmed mean measure of 12-month PCE inflation constructed by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas was 3.6 percent in October, also down from its level a year ago. In November, the 12-month change in the consumer price index (CPI) was 3.1 percent, core CPI rose 4.0 percent over the same period, and both measures were well below their year-earlier levels. Recent survey measures of medium- to longer-term inflation expectations were in the range seen in the decade before the pandemic. In contrast, survey measures of consumers' short-run inflation expectations remained above their pre-pandemic levels.

Available indicators suggested that real GDP growth was slowing from its strong third-quarter pace, which had been led by a sizable increase in consumer spending. In October, PCE growth slowed from its average monthly rate in the third quarter. As for business investment, nominal shipments of nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft were essentially flat in October, al­though nonresidential construction spending by businesses edged up. Residential housing starts moved mostly sideways, and home sales continued to fall. Manufacturing production declined in October, and factory output was weak, even after excluding the decrease in motor vehicle assemblies caused by the autoworkers' strike. The nominal trade deficit widened in October, as exports declined and imports rose slightly.

Foreign economic growth slowed in the third quarter, and available indicators pointed to subdued growth in the fourth quarter. The significant tightening of monetary policy by foreign central banks over the past two years and the repercussions of last year's energy shock in Europe continued to weigh on foreign economic activity. Chinese economic indicators, such as retail sales and industrial production, pointed to economic growth remaining modest. By contrast, economic activity in Asia excluding China stepped up, supported in part by a recovery in industrial production, especially in the high-tech sector.

While inflation was still elevated in most major economies, incoming data indicated that it had moved down markedly. These decreases reflected notable step-downs in both energy and core inflation amid slowing aggregate demand and declines in oil prices. Most major foreign central banks kept their policy rates unchanged over the intermeeting period and emphasized the need to maintain a sufficiently restrictive stance of policy to ensure that inflation fell back to their targets.