The information reviewed at the December 14 meeting indicated that economic activity was increasing at a moderate rate, but that the unemployment rate remained elevated. The pace of consumer spending picked up in October and November, exports rose rapidly in October, and the recovery in business spending on equipment and software (E&S) appeared to be continuing. In contrast, residential and nonresidential construction activity was still depressed. Manufacturing production registered a solid gain in October. Nonfarm businesses continued to add workers in October and November, and the average workweek moved up. Longer-run inflation expectations were stable, but core inflation continued to trend lower.

Labor demand rose further in recent months, but unemployment stayed at a high level. The average increase in private nonfarm payroll employment in October and November was close to the pace over the preceding six months, while the average workweek for all employees edged higher. The bulk of the private-sector job gains continued to be in the services industries; employment in manufacturing, construction, and retail trade declined, on average, in October and November. Employment at state and local governments rose slightly over the two-month period. A number of indicators of job openings and hiring plans improved in October and November, and initial claims for unemployment insurance trended steadily lower through November and early December. However, the unemployment rate, which remained at 9.6 percent during the preceding three months, increased to 9.8 percent in November, while the labor force participation rate and the employment-population ratio remained depressed.

Industrial production in the manufacturing sector increased at a solid pace in October, with advances widespread across industries; total industrial production was unchanged due to an offsetting weather-related drop in the output of utilities. The manufacturing capacity utilization rate continued to move up in October, although it remained significantly below its 1972-2009 average. Most indicators of near-term industrial activity, such as the new orders diffusion indexes in the national and regional manufacturing surveys, were at levels consistent with moderate gains in industrial production in the near term. Motor vehicle assemblies, which rose in October, fell back in November but were scheduled to move up again in coming months.

The pace of consumer spending picked up in recent months from the modest rate that prevailed earlier in the year. Nominal retail sales, excluding purchases at motor vehicles and parts outlets, posted a strong gain in November, and revised estimates showed larger increases in September and October than previously reported. In addition, sales of new light motor vehicles stepped up in October and remained at that higher level in November. A number of factors supporting consumer spending also improved. Revised data on personal income indicated that it was stronger last spring and summer than previously reported. Household net worth rose further in the third quarter, as an increase in equity values more than offset the effect of a drop in house prices. Consumer sentiment turned more positive in November and early December, retracing most of the decline that occurred during the summer. However, while consumer credit outstanding showed signs of stabilizing after two years of runoffs, credit terms were still noticeably less favorable than in the past, and demand for credit appeared to remain weak.

Activity in the housing market was still quite depressed. In October, starts of new single-family homes remained at the very low level that had prevailed since August. Moreover, the level of permit issuance, which is typically a near-term indicator of new homebuilding, continued to run below starts. The persistence of a large excess supply of existing homes on the market and tight credit conditions for construction appeared to constitute a significant restraint on new homebuilding. Demand for housing also remained very weak: Sales of new homes in October were at the lowest level in the 48-year history of the series. Purchases of existing homes edged lower in October; in part, the still-low level of sales likely reflected the payback from the earlier surge in sales associated with the homebuyer tax credit and also the moratoriums on sales of bank-owned properties. Measures of house prices declined recently, and households' concerns that home values might continue to fall, their pessimism about the outlook for employment and income, and the tight standards faced by many mortgage borrowers appeared to be weighing on demand.

Real business investment in equipment and software appeared to be increasing, although the pace of spending seemed to have moderated from the rapid rate of the first half of the year. The rise in E&S spending during the third quarter, while somewhat slower than earlier in the year, remained solid and broad based, but the available data for the fourth quarter were mixed. Nominal orders and shipments of nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft declined in October, and business purchases of new vehicles in October and November were down a bit from their third-quarter level. In contrast, sales of software still appeared to be on a solid uptrend, and deliveries of completed aircraft picked up in November. Surveys of purchasing managers reported plans to step up capital spending in 2011; however, reports from small businesses on their planned expenditures remained downbeat. Business outlays on nonresidential structures appeared to be declining further, with a drop in spending on building construction offset only slightly by increased investment in drilling and mining structures. Overall borrowing by nonfinancial corporations was robust again in November, indicators of credit quality continued to improve, and small businesses noted some easing in credit availability. However, financing conditions for commercial real estate remained tight.

Real inventory investment rose sharply in the third quarter, but book-value data for October suggested that the pace of accumulation was slowing. Although inventory-sales ratios rose during the third quarter, survey data implied that few businesses perceived inventory stocks as being too high.

Consumer price inflation trended lower in October. The 12-month change in the total personal consumption expenditures (PCE) price index reached its lowest level of the past year; the 12-month change in the PCE price index for core goods and services also moved down. In October, core PCE prices were unchanged for a second month, as goods prices declined and prices of non-energy services posted a small increase. The broad-based deceleration in underlying inflation was also apparent in other measures, such as the trimmed-mean PCE price index and a diffusion index of PCE price changes. Despite the rise in agricultural commodity prices, the increase in retail food prices was modest. In contrast, consumer energy prices continued to rise rapidly in October, and spot prices of imported crude oil moved higher, on net, during November and early December. The rise in prices of nonfuel industrial commodities moderated over the intermeeting period as spot prices of metals declined, but the producer price index for domestically manufactured intermediate goods accelerated in October and November. In November and early December, survey measures of households' short- and long-term inflation expectations remained in the ranges that have prevailed since the spring of 2009.

Available measures of labor compensation showed that labor cost pressures were still restrained. The 12-month change in average hourly earnings for all employees remained low in November. In the third quarter, the modest rise in hourly compensation in the nonfarm business sector was matched by a similar increase in productivity.

The U.S. international trade deficit narrowed considerably in October, shrinking to its lowest level since the beginning of the year, as exports surged and imports edged down. The strength in exports was relatively broad based. Exports of industrial supplies and agricultural goods registered the largest increases, although rising prices accounted for some of those gains. Exports of machinery and automotive products also rose strongly. The decrease in imports was concentrated in petroleum products, reflecting lower volumes, and in computers. In contrast, imports of consumer goods posted a noticeable increase.

Recent data releases confirmed that, in the aggregate, the rise in foreign real gross domestic product (GDP) slowed sharply in the third quarter from the very rapid pace earlier in the year. The slowdown was most pronounced in the emerging market economies (EMEs), where economic activity was restrained by the abatement of inventory rebuilding and the associated waning of the rebound in global trade, the unwinding of fiscal stimulus measures, and a continued tightening of monetary policies in several countries. More recent indicators for the EMEs, including purchasing managers indexes (PMIs), pointed to a rebound in economic activity in the fourth quarter. The advanced foreign economies (AFEs) also saw a slower rise in real economic activity in the third quarter than occurred earlier in the year. In the euro area, economic performance continued to diverge across countries. The increase in German economic activity in the third quarter was nearly twice the euro-area average rate, and recent indicators, including PMIs and consumer and business sentiment, showed further solid performance. In contrast, Spanish economic activity stagnated in the third quarter, Greek GDP extended its decline, and more-recent indicators point to continued weakness in peripheral European economies. Headline inflation rates generally picked up in the foreign economies, driven largely by food and energy prices; measures of inflation excluding food and energy prices were relatively steady.