The information reviewed at this meeting suggested that the economy continued to expand at a solid pace during the second quarter. Although growth in consumer spending appeared to have slowed somewhat, the demand for housing increased from its robust first-quarter pace. Business fixed investment, boosted by surging outlays on equipment and software, also grew rapidly. The labor market improved further during the quarter, with large gains in employment registered in April and May. Core consumer price inflation picked up, reflecting in part the pass-through of substantial advances in energy prices and non-energy import prices.

The labor market rebounded strongly in recent months. Private nonfarm payrolls grew rapidly in April and May, with hiring widespread across industries. The manufacturing sector appeared to be on a more solid footing, as manufacturers added jobs in each of the past four months after more than three years of declines. Aggregate hours moved up in both April and May, bringing the level of hours substantially above its trough of last summer. Despite the recent strength in hiring, the unemployment rate changed little in recent months, and the labor force participation rate remained low.

Industrial production accelerated in April and May after a sizable advance in the first quarter. Output at utilities surged in the latter month, reflecting weather-related factors, and factory output excluding motor vehicles, buoyed by strong gains in both high-tech manufacturing industries and in most non-high-tech industries, expanded sharply in both months. In contrast, the production of motor vehicles declined as automakers trimmed outsized inventory positions. Capacity utilization moved higher but stayed below its long-run average.

Growth in real consumer spending appeared to have slowed somewhat in recent months from its first-quarter pace. Although outlays for motor vehicles in May more than retraced their April decline and purchases of services advanced at an appreciable rate, spending on nondurable goods remained sluggish. Despite higher energy prices, real disposable personal income continued its uptrend in recent months, benefiting from an improved labor market and last year's tax cut. Home prices also continued to rise at a rapid pace, contributing importantly to increases in household wealth. Survey measures of consumer confidence moved up in June from already favorable levels.

Activity in the housing market increased in April and May despite a considerable rise in mortgage interest rates. Single-family housing starts edged above their rapid first-quarter pace, and sales of both new and existing homes reached record levels in May. In the volatile multifamily sector, housing starts fell somewhat in May, but, more generally, construction activity in this sector had been surprisingly resilient in light of the high vacancy rate for such units.

Business investment spending appeared to have advanced at a brisk pace in the second quarter, as rising output, low user cost of capital, and increased corporate cash flow continued to foster a favorable environment for capital spending. Although new orders and shipments of nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft dipped in May, both series remained on a solid uptrend, and, with orders exceeding shipments, backlogs continued to grow. Spending on transportation equipment, which dropped in the first quarter, appeared to rebound in recent months, while outside the transportation and high-tech sectors, increases in spending moderated from their rapid first-quarter pace. After declining in the first quarter, overall investment in nonresidential structures appeared to pick up a little in the second quarter, though the performance of the major types of construction remained mixed. Spending on office buildings and manufacturing structures continued to be depressed by high vacancy rates, while outlays for commercial buildings moved up in conjunction with declines in vacancy rates for such structures. In addition, judging by the number of natural gas drilling rigs in operation, spending on drilling and mining structures rose in recent months.

The pace of inventory accumulation remained subdued. Although the book value of manufacturing and trade inventories increased appreciably in the first quarter and continued to rise at about the same pace in April, the recent large increases in the book-value data were due importantly to a jump in the price of oil and a run-up in the prices of intermediate materials. Inventory-sales ratios in manufacturing and retail trade edged higher in April but remained near their historical lows; meanwhile, inventory-sales ratios in the wholesale trade sector trended lower.

The U.S. international trade deficit reached a new record in April, reflecting in large part a sharp decline in exports of goods. The fall in goods exports was widespread, with notable decreases in capital goods, industrial supplies, and agricultural products. Exports of services, in contrast, increased in April. Imports of goods edged higher, as a large decline in the value of imported oil was offset by an increase in imports of non-oil products, and imports of services increased. Real GDP in the major foreign industrial countries expanded at a healthy pace in the first quarter. Indicators of economic activity in the second quarter for Canada and the United Kingdom were also favorable, whereas those for the euro area were somewhat mixed. Japan's economy, supported by robust private domestic demand and rising consumer confidence, evidently continued to expand strongly in the second quarter. Mainly as a result of higher energy prices, consumer price inflation moved up a bit in the second quarter in Canada, the United Kingdom, and the euro area, while slight deflation persisted in Japan.

Consumer price inflation turned up this year from the very low rates registered in 2003, both for overall measures and for those that exclude food and energy. Overall consumer prices rose more quickly than core prices, reflecting the direct contributions of substantial increases in prices of food and energy. But the step-up in core inflation was also due in part to the pass-through of higher energy and import costs into core consumer prices. Some survey measures of short-term inflation expectations moved higher in recent months, but longer-term expectations remained reasonably well contained. Commodity prices escalated sharply during the early months of 2004, but indexes of spot prices for industrial materials and for wholesale gasoline retreated appreciably in recent weeks. Meanwhile, labor costs appeared to have turned up in the first half of the year. Hourly compensation in private industry rose in the first quarter at the same rate as in 2003, but with the pace of productivity advance moderating, unit labor costs moved higher. In April and May, increases in average hourly earnings of production or nonsupervisory workers on private nonfarm payrolls exceeded the monthly gains registered in the first quarter and were well above the increases in the fourth quarter of 2003.