At its meeting on May 4, 2004, the Federal Open Market Committee decided to leave its target for the federal funds rate unchanged at 1 percent. The Committee retained its assessment that the upside and downside risks to the attainment of sustainable growth were roughly equal, but it announced that the risks to the goal of price stability had moved into balance. The Committee also noted that output had continued to expand at a solid pace, new hiring had appeared to pick up, and although incoming data on inflation showed that it had moved somewhat higher, longer-term inflation expectations had remained well contained. Reflecting these developments, the Committee concluded that it could remove policy accommodation at a pace that was likely to be measured.

The Committee's decision at its May meeting to leave the intended level of the federal funds rate unchanged had been fully anticipated by market participants. Likewise, the replacement of the sentence in the announcement reporting that the Committee could be patient in removing policy accommodation with one indicating that policy accommodation can be removed at a pace that is likely to be measured had little net effect on money market futures rates on the day of the announcement. Over the balance of the intermeeting period, however, market participants marked up significantly the extent of expected policy tightening in response to data that indicated robust gains in employment and spending and somewhat elevated inflation, as well as to comments by Committee members providing reassurance that policy would be tightened as necessary to contain any incipient inflationary pressures. Revisions to policy expectations showed through to interest rates on nominal Treasury securities, which increased commensurately. Yields on inflation-indexed Treasury securities rose almost as much as those on their nominal counterparts, leaving inflation compensation only slightly higher, on net, by the end of the intermeeting period. Yields on investment- and speculative-grade corporate securities rose about the same amount as those on comparable Treasuries, leaving risk spreads about unchanged. Generally positive economic news and further improvements in the outlook for corporate earnings evidently offset the influence of higher interest rates, and major equity indexes edged higher over the intermeeting period. In foreign exchange markets, the dollar depreciated somewhat against major currencies, and it rose a bit against an index of currencies of other major U.S. trading partners.

M2 continued to expand rapidly in May. The upswing in M2 growth since late winter stemmed in part from the temporary effects of mortgage refinancing, which boosted liquid deposits over this period, though M2 was also buoyed by strong gains in nominal income. In recent months, a rebound in currency growth and reduced portfolio shifts by households from monetary assets to equities and bonds also supported the expansion of M2. The growth of M2 slowed appreciably during the first half of June. Commercial bank credit decelerated in May, reflecting a contraction in bank holdings of securities and a slowdown in the growth of loans. The slowing in loan growth was concentrated mainly in real estate credits and was due partly to heavy securitizations.