In the Committee's discussion of current and prospective economic conditions, members commented that the evidence accumulated over the intermeeting period continued to portray an economy that was expanding briskly and was likely to continue to do so for some time. Business and consumer expenditures were on a strong uptrend, and related growth in output was associated with notable improvement in labor market conditions and in manufacturing activity. Members saw the persistence of a relatively vigorous expansion in overall economic activity as a likely prospect in the context of continuing stimulus from fiscal and monetary policies, accommodative financial conditions, growing business optimism, favorable consumer sentiment, and robust increases in productivity. Solid increases in economic activity and employment should in turn provide ongoing support to business and consumer spending. Members acknowledged that their favorable outlook for economic activity was based on the assumption that major terrorist disruptions would be averted.

In light of the strength of economic activity and recent indications of somewhat increased price pressures, the members focused particular attention on the outlook for inflation. They referred to statistical and anecdotal evidence that on the whole pointed to some recent acceleration of consumer prices and to some increase in near-term inflation expectations. Factors cited in this regard included large increases in prices of energy and intermediate materials, both of which appeared to be passing through at least in part to core consumer prices. Members referred to some limited inflationary impetus as well from the depreciation of the dollar and larger increases in labor compensation. Considerable uncertainty still surrounded the overall extent to which competitive pressures would allow producers to pass through rising costs to prices of finished goods; anecdotal reports suggested that the ability of many producers to do so was increasing but was far from universal at this point. With regard to the prospective course of inflation, members suggested that some of the rise in core inflation in recent months appeared to have resulted from what might well prove to be transitory factors, notably including increases in energy and other import prices, which were not seen as likely to persist and indeed might be partially reversed. Just how much slowing of price increases was likely after some relatively elevated readings was difficult to forecast. Those who anticipated a noticeable deceleration emphasized the contribution of the one-time price increases that had boosted inflation recently, persisting, albeit diminishing, margins of unemployed labor and other productive resources, the anticipation of strong further gains in productivity and declines in markups of goods prices over costs, and steady long-term inflation expectations. Others tended to emphasize the changes in business attitudes and expectations, the strength in labor compensation, and the tendency for underlying inflation trends to be subject to considerable momentum that was unlikely to be reversed quickly. Whatever their inflation forecasts, several noted that they now had less confidence in those forecasts than earlier. A number of members qualified their inflation outlook by noting that its realization likely would require an adjustment to monetary policy over time that brought the latter to a neutral stance as the economy continued to move toward full utilization of its resources.

In preparation for the midyear monetary policy report to Congress, the members of the Board of Governors and the presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks submitted individual projections of the growth of GDP, the rate of unemployment, and the rate of inflation for the years 2004 and 2005. The forecasts of the rate of expansion in real GDP were concentrated in the upper part of a 4 to 4-3/4 percent range for 2004, implying expectations by most members of a pickup over the second half of the year; for 2005 the forecasts were in a reduced range of 3-1/2 to 4 percent. These rates of growth were associated with ranges for the civilian rate of unemployment of 5-1/4 to 5-1/2 percent in the fourth quarter of 2004 and 5 to 5-1/2 percent in the fourth quarter of 2005. Forecasts of the rate of inflation, as measured by the core PCE price index, pointed to marginally higher rates of inflation encompassed by ranges of 1-1/2 to 2 percent for this year and 1-1/2 to 2-1/2 percent for 2005.

In their comments about developments in key sectors of the economy, many of the members emphasized the strength in business capital spending. Explanatory factors included the sustained demand for business output, strong profit margins and cash flow, low capital costs, and the partial-expensing tax provision. Weakness persisted, however, in the nonresidential construction sector, though signs of improvement were emerging in some areas. Many business contacts were expressing a marked degree of optimism about the outlook for business activity in the second half of the year. Currently low inventory-to-sales ratios, indeed reports of emerging bottlenecks in some markets, were expected to foster efforts to rebuild inventories and thus add support to the expansion going forward.

Consumer outlays were rising more moderately in the second quarter and somewhat below expectations. The slowing was not universal, however. Some members reported a continuation of robust consumer expenditures in various parts of the country. Looking ahead, members, in part echoing the sentiment of contacts among retailers, anticipated renewed strength in consumer spending in the context of sizable further growth in employment and disposable incomes and a generally high level of consumer confidence. In housing markets, activity had remained at generally high levels, with only a few signs that rising mortgage rates were beginning to hold down sales and construction. There was evidence in some areas that inventories of unsold homes had risen. Members noted that persisting overall strength in housing might to some extent be a response to expectations of further increases in mortgage rates, implying that a slowdown might be likely later in the year.

Members commented that fiscal policy was continuing to provide appreciable impetus to the economy, in part because of the incentives for business investment associated with the partial-expensing tax legislation. Following the scheduled expiration of that legislation at the end of this year and with more moderate gains in federal spending forecast in the absence of new legislation, the federal budget was expected to become mildly contractionary in 2005, although a marked degree of uncertainty surrounded this outlook. Many state and local governments were increasing their spending more rapidly in response to brightening budget situations.

Expanding foreign economies and the depreciation of the dollar were expected to foster appreciable growth in U.S. exports, but with imports still considerably larger than exports, the external sector was likely to make a measurable negative contribution to U.S. GDP growth this year and next. On the inflation side, higher import prices and, importantly, the rise in domestic and imported oil prices were adding to domestic inflationary pressures, although improving oil supplies had recently contributed to somewhat lower domestic gasoline prices.

In the Committee's discussion of policy for the intermeeting period, all of the members indicated that they could support an upward adjustment in the target for the federal funds rate from a level of 1 percent to 1-1/4 percent. Recent developments, notably the persistence of solid gains in output and employment along with indications of some increase in inflation, were seen as warranting a first step in the process of removing policy accommodation. The timing and pace of further policy moves would depend, of course, on the members' reading of the incoming economic information and their interpretation of its implications for economic activity and inflation. In this regard, members commented that they could envision a series of gradual or "measured" policy moves as likely to be consistent with the attainment of the Committee's objectives for sustaining progress toward higher levels of resource utilization and maintaining price stability. A few indicated, however, that their preference would be to remove any characterization of possible future policy actions from the Committee's statements. Partly reflecting anticipated monetary policy actions, financial market conditions had tightened in recent months, but short-term interest rates were quite low, especially when judged against the recent level of inflation. Depending on the rate at which resource utilization increased and the level and trend of inflation, a more aggressive pace toward reaching a neutral policy stance might be called for so as to provide assurance of containing emerging inflationary pressures and averting the potential need for greater overall tightening over time.

In the Committee's review of the announcement to be released shortly after this meeting, members agreed that an updating of the reasons for its policy decision was desirable, specifically by adding a reference to the possibility that some of the recent acceleration in inflation might reflect transitory factors. The members also decided to modify the reference to labor market conditions by referring in general terms to improved conditions rather than more narrowly to a pickup in hiring to acknowledge the broad range of labor market indicators considered by the Committee. They agreed to retain the assessments adopted at the May meeting indicating that they viewed the upside and downside risks to both the attainment of sustainable economic growth and to the goal of price stability as roughly in balance for the next few quarters. However, with regard to the outlook for inflation, a number of members emphasized that they would view the risks as tilted to the upside in the absence of further policy tightening actions that would bring the stance of policy to a more neutral setting. Many members also underscored their view that the statement should make clear that the Committee would be prepared to respond to significant changes in economic prospects and take actions that were deemed necessary to meet the Committee's commitment to maintain price stability.