The deputy manager of the System Open Market Account (SOMA) reported on developments in financial markets and open market operations during the period since the Committee met on June 14-15, 2016. Following the outcome of the June 23 referendum in the United Kingdom in which a majority indicated a preference to leave the European Union (EU), yields on U.S. Treasury securities fell sharply, U.S. equity prices declined, and the foreign exchange value of the dollar increased. However, these changes generally reversed in subsequent weeks. On balance, Treasury yields were down only slightly over the intermeeting period, equity prices were higher, and the foreign exchange value of the dollar was little changed. Al­though the expected path of the federal funds rate implied by market prices was about unchanged on net, the Open Market Desk's Survey of Primary Dealers and Survey of Market Participants indicated that the median responses for the most likely path of the federal funds rate over coming quarters had declined.

During the intermeeting period, federal funds continued to trade at rates well within the FOMC's 1/4 to 1/2 percent target range. However, the average effective federal funds rate was modestly higher than in the previous intermeeting period. The slightly firmer conditions in the federal funds market were supported by higher rates in money markets for secured transactions, which appeared to reflect at least in part more cautious liquidity management by some money market participants in the wake of the U.K. referendum. Take-up at the System's overnight reverse repurchase agreement facility rose somewhat. The increase seemed to be in part the result of shifts in investments by money market funds in advance of the scheduled implementation in October of changes to the regulation of the money market fund industry.

By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Desk's domestic transactions over the intermeeting period. There were no intervention operations in foreign currencies for the System's account during the intermeeting period.