The information reviewed at this meeting suggested that economic growth softened somewhat in recent months. While strength in the housing market persisted and business outlays remained healthy, growth in consumer spending fell off significantly. Additionally, gains in employment, which were robust in earlier months, slowed sharply in June and July. Industrial production also decelerated modestly in June, but available indicators suggested a bounceback in July. Core consumer price inflation moderated in May and June, despite further increases in energy prices.

Growth in employment slowed in June and July after displaying significant improvement in preceding months. The weakness was reported to be widespread, with the retail trade, information, financial activities, and government sectors registering declines on average over the two months. The construction and services sectors posted gains, but at a pace well below those of previous months. In contrast, after little change in June, payrolls in manufacturing rose appreciably in July. The average workweek declined in June but edged up in July, and aggregate hours of private production workers showed a similar pattern. Labor force participation moved up slightly in recent months, and the unemployment rate, which was unchanged in June, edged down to 5-1/2 percent in July.

After rising rapidly in April and May, industrial production declined modestly in June, although manufacturing output, excluding motor vehicles and parts, increased a bit. Production of motor vehicles and parts declined noticeably, as automakers scaled back assemblies in response to elevated inventories. Output at utilities also fell in June as temperatures returned to more normal levels after an unseasonably warm May. Activity in the mining sector changed little. Overall capacity utilization was off slightly in June, but utilization on average over the quarter was above that of the first quarter. However, data on the growth in production-worker hours and other indicators of production suggested that manufacturing output bounced back in July.

Growth in consumer spending slowed sharply in the second quarter, posting only a small increase after a robust expansion in the first quarter. Although gains in outlays for services continued at a solid rate in the second quarter, expenditures for goods declined markedly. Data on consumer expenditures showed particular weakness in June, with either declines or no growth in purchases across most categories of goods and services. Purchases of cars and trucks contracted in that month but rebounded in July. Real disposable income was unchanged in June, held back by increases in prices of food and, especially, energy.

Activity in the housing market remained strong in June despite some variation across segments. Single-family housing starts fell back from very high levels in April and May. Multifamily housing starts also declined in June, though only a bit. Sales of existing homes jumped again in June to set a new record, and sales of new homes came in just below the record pace posted in May.

Business investment spending on equipment and software was solid in the second quarter, posting growth a little above the pace of the first quarter. Performance across categories, however, was uneven. Spending in the transportation equipment sector bounced back from a first-quarter decline, and outlays in the high-tech sector grew twice as fast as overall equipment and software spending in the quarter. Excluding transportation and high-tech equipment, however, gains were minimal. Real business investment in nonresidential structures turned up in the second quarter, albeit to a still-depressed level. Increased spending on office buildings, commercial structures, and various other types of buildings more than offset a sizable decline in the power generation component.

Real nonfarm inventories excluding motor vehicles picked up in the second quarter as the manufacturing, merchant wholesalers, and retail trade segments all boosted stocks. Book-value inventory-sales ratios edged up, but remained at fairly low levels.

The U.S. international trade deficit declined somewhat in May after reaching a record high in April. The value of exports of goods and services climbed substantially, with exports of goods more than accounting for the entire rise, as exports of services edged down. The value of imports of goods and services also increased in the month, but by less than exports. Available data indicated that major foreign industrial economies continued to expand at a solid pace in recent months. In Japan, gains in exports and household expenditures fueled the advance in output, and surveys of business and consumer confidence were also favorable. Real GDP accelerated in the United Kingdom, and economic activity grew at a solid pace in Canada, led by a surge in investment. Indicators for the euro area suggested that activity decelerated a bit in the second quarter. Growth of real GDP in China slowed significantly in the spring.

Core consumer price inflation moderated substantially in May and June, though sizable increases in food and energy prices continued to push up overall consumer price inflation. Increases in the food and energy components of the CPI were smaller in June than in May, and further deceleration was expected as gasoline and natural gas prices eased in July and supply conditions in a number of agricultural segments improved. In July, households' expectations for consumer inflation in the year ahead fell somewhat. Overall producer prices for finished goods were down in June, as declines in prices for food and energy were only partially offset by modest growth in the core components of the index. With regard to labor costs, the employment cost index for hourly compensation of private workers for the three months ending in June advanced at about the same rate as it had over the previous year-and-a-half. Unit labor costs, however, increased faster in the second quarter than in the first.