In the Committee's discussion of current and prospective economic developments, members noted that the pace of the expansion had moderated. In particular, consumer spending, which had previously provided considerable support to aggregate demand, had slowed sharply in the second quarter. At the same time, growth in payrolls had fallen back in June and July after posting significant gains in the spring. While the recent moderation in growth might portend a substantially slower expansion going forward than had previously been expected, the Committee did not see such a sizable shortfall as the most likely outcome. Activity in the housing sector remained strong, and investment outlays continued to advance at a good pace. With economic growth buoyed by accommodative monetary policy and supportive credit conditions more generally as well as by robust underlying growth in productivity, the Committee believed that conditions were in place for the pace of expansion to strengthen enough to continue to trim margins of slack in resource utilization. Indeed, the limited available evidence pointed to a rebound in household spending, especially on motor vehicles, in July and early August, and some indicators suggested continued improvement in labor market conditions. Regarding the outlook for inflation, the most recent data were seen as consistent with an assessment that a portion of the higher rates of price increases recorded earlier in the year had reflected transitory factors.

Committee members generally agreed that higher energy prices had played an important role in the recent moderation of economic growth. While the direct effect of higher energy prices on real disposable income could account for only a relatively small part of the reduction in the growth of consumer spending, some members suggested that those effects may have been exacerbated by substantial increases in expected future energy costs as well as greater uncertainty about those costs. Moreover, the economy seemed to have responded in some past episodes to sharp increases in energy costs by much more than could be explained by most models. Still, some Committee members doubted that higher energy prices were sufficient to explain all of the recent slowdown in spending. Effects of increased energy prices on consumer and business confidence, which might have led to a larger spending response, had not been evident, and the consequences for growth in other industrialized countries dependent on imported oil appeared to have been fairly modest thus far. Informed in part by prices in futures markets, Committee members anticipated that energy costs would level out and perhaps fall back from their recent highs, but they noted that there was considerable uncertainty about that outlook.

Policymakers focused their comments about key sectors of the economy on the slowdown in consumer spending toward the end of the second quarter. Business contacts in some parts of the country suggested that, in addition to higher energy prices, unseasonable weather may have limited spending for a time. The Committee discussed a number of other factors that may have contributed to the slowdown, including a waning of the stimulus from last year's tax cuts, which had previously provided considerable impetus to spending, and the possibility that, with stock prices down, saving rates near historic lows, and the outlook more uncertain, households may have felt the need to boost saving. Although a complete accounting for the moderation in growth was not possible, the Committee agreed that a resumption of faster growth in consumer spending was very likely. Continued strength in home construction did not suggest that households were in the process of retrenching, and gains in income, low interest rates, and robust consumer confidence were seen as undergirding further gains in household spending going forward. Members noted that reports of rising motor vehicle sales in July and early August and a firming of chain store sales in recent weeks provided some limited evidence that consumption spending was picking up.

Investment spending had continued to advance, though perhaps at a somewhat slower pace than some members had anticipated. Several policymakers noted that businesses remained cautious about capital spending and hiring and were attempting to boost production as much as possible with existing capacity and payrolls. Indeed, some members suggested that heightened uncertainty, reflecting the effects of higher energy prices and increased concerns about geopolitical risks, might have contributed to greater business caution of late. Nonetheless, business confidence generally remained high, and the fundamentals for investment--including solid growth in productivity, robust profits and cash flow, and accommodative financial markets--pointed to continued healthy gains in business outlays. A few members also noted that the commercial real estate sector, which had been weak for some time, was showing signs of improvement.

In their remarks regarding the external sector of the economy, members noted that on average growth abroad had remained reasonably robust, which should support U.S. exports. However, the U.S. trade deficit was expected to remain large as imports increased in response to solid growth in the United States.

In their discussion of recent labor market trends, Committee members noted the slowing of job growth reported in June and July. Committee members pointed to several factors that that might have contributed to the recent weakness. Firms' focus on controlling costs and implementing further productivity improvements were doubtless continuing to play a role. Higher labor costs, particularly those related to health benefits, were also reportedly weighing on some firms' hiring decisions. However, policymakers noted that the monthly payrolls data might be providing an incomplete picture of expansion in economic activity because of near-term variation in the rate of growth of productivity. In addition, many members pointed to data from the survey of households, which showed both a rise in labor force participation and a decline in the unemployment rate in July, as well as to initial claims for unemployment compensation, which remained near recent lows. Moreover, survey data on labor market attitudes of both consumers and businesses had not signaled a significant deterioration in employment prospects. All things considered, the Committee expected the pace of employment gains to improve in coming months.

In their review of the outlook for prices, members noted that incoming data over the intermeeting period had shown a slowing in core inflation from the high levels posted earlier in the year, consistent with the Committee's view that a portion of the earlier increase had reflected transitory factors. Information from business contacts suggested that a number of firms had been able to pass on at least some of their higher energy and other costs to customers, but few signs of more widespread price increases were apparent. Some members expressed concern about developments in the transportation sector, where trucking costs were reportedly on the rise and bottlenecks in the railroad industry were triggering delivery delays. Looking forward, however, most members thought that rapid productivity growth and flat or declining energy prices would limit increases in the overall unit costs of businesses. Despite the higher rates of headline inflation earlier in the year, longer-term inflation expectations remained well contained and slack in resource markets was seen as persisting, leading the Committee to expect underlying inflation to be relatively low.

In the Committee's discussion of policy for the intermeeting period, all the members favored an increase in the target for the federal funds rate from 1-1/4 to 1-1/2 percent. Although the pace of economic growth had moderated in the second quarter, the Committee believed that the softness would prove short-lived and that the economy was poised to resume a stronger rate of expansion going forward. Given the current quite low level of short-term rates, especially when judged against the recent level of inflation, members noted that significant cumulative policy tightening likely would be needed to foster conditions consistent with the Committee's objectives for price stability and sustainable economic growth. In this context, a relatively small tightening move at this meeting would help to limit the risk of a rise in inflation expectations and reduce the likelihood that policy might need to be adjusted more sharply in the future, thereby lowering the attendant risks to financial markets and the economy. The members thought that policy accommodation probably could be removed gradually--a view that had been reinforced by the slower pace of growth and more moderate rates of price increase that had become evident over the intermeeting period. However, members also recognized that the timing and pace of additional policy tightening would depend importantly on incoming economic data and the Committee's assessment of their implications for economic activity and inflation.

With regard to the Committee's announcement to be released after the meeting, members agreed that the description of recent economic circumstances should acknowledge the slowing in output and employment growth, as well as highlight the role of higher energy prices in those developments. They also agreed to retain the assessments adopted at the June meeting that the risks to the Committee's goals of sustainable economic growth and price stability were balanced over the next few quarters. While a more persistent slowing of household spending was possible, and more subdued inflation readings over the intermeeting period had eased concerns about a potential increase in underlying inflation, policymakers continued to judge the risks to sustainable growth and the inflation outlook as roughly balanced. The Committee chose to reiterate its belief that policy accommodation could be removed at a pace that is likely to be measured as well as its intention to respond to changes in economic prospects as needed to fulfill its obligation to achieve its goal of price stability.