At its meeting on June 29-30, 2004, the Federal Open Market Committee adopted a directive that called for conditions in reserve markets consistent with increasing the federal funds rate to an average of around 1-1/4 percent. The Committee continued to perceive that the upside and downside risks to the attainment of both sustainable growth and price stability for the next few quarters were roughly equal. In its public statement, the Committee noted that, with underlying inflation still expected to be relatively low, it believed that policy accommodation could be removed at a pace that was likely to be measured, but that, nonetheless, it would respond to changes in economic prospects as needed to fulfill its obligation to maintain price stability.

This decision to raise the intended level of the federal funds rate by 25 basis points was anticipated in the financial markets, yet investors revised down their expectations for the path of policy upon the release of the accompanying statement. In particular, investors noted that the Committee attributed some of the recent increase in inflation to transitory factors, retained its earlier balance of risks assessment, and reiterated its belief that policy accommodation could be removed at a pace that would likely be measured. Subsequently, the Chairman's Congressional testimony on monetary policy, which suggested that recent softness in consumer spending should prove short-lived and emphasized the FOMC's commitment to price stability, spurred an upward tilt in the market's expected path of monetary policy. Over the remainder of the intermeeting period, though, expectations of policy tightening were revised down somewhat, on balance, as incoming data pointed to weaker-than-anticipated spending and employment and more subdued core inflation. Yields on intermediate- and long-term nominal Treasury securities dropped significantly over the intermeeting period. Available data suggested that corporate credit quality remained strong, and yields on investment-grade bonds moved roughly in line with those on Treasury securities. Speculative-grade yields, however, fell by less. In equity markets, broad indexes declined appreciably, reflecting the soft economic data, concerns about energy prices, and guidance from corporations pointing to a less-optimistic trajectory for earnings than investors apparently had been expecting. In foreign exchange markets, the dollar's trade-weighted value against other major currencies ended the period little changed, on net.

Following several months of robust expansion, M2 grew at a slower pace in June and available data implied a slight contraction in July. Most of the weakness owed to a slowdown in liquid deposit growth that was related in part to the decline in mortgage refinancing activity. In addition, retail money market funds resumed their earlier decline. Currency growth, however, strengthened over the two months, partly as a result of a pickup in foreign demand.