The information reviewed at the January meeting, which included the advance data on the national income and product accounts for the fourth quarter, indicated that economic activity had decelerated sharply in recent months. The contraction in homebuilding intensified in the fourth quarter, the growth in consumer spending slowed, and survey measures of both consumer and business sentiment were at low levels. In addition, industrial production contracted in the fourth quarter. Conditions in the labor market deteriorated noticeably, with private payroll employment posting a small decline in December and the unemployment rate rising. Readings on both headline and core inflation increased in recent months, although the twelve-month change in prices of core personal consumption expenditures in December was about the same as its year-earlier value.

On average, private nonfarm payroll employment in November and December rose at only about half of the average pace seen from July to October. Over 2007 as a whole, the deterioration in labor demand was most pronounced in the construction and financial activities industries, which had been hardest hit by the difficulties in the housing and mortgage markets. Manufacturing employment declined yet again in December, while the decrease in employment in retail trade nearly reversed the sizable increase in that sector recorded in November. Aggregate hours of production or nonsupervisory workers were unchanged in December.  The unemployment rate rose to 5.0 percent in December after having been at or near 4.7 percent since September.

Industrial production declined in the fourth quarter, as a drag from motor vehicles and construction-related industries more than offset a positive contribution from other industries. Output in high-tech industries moderated in the fourth quarter, largely because of a deceleration in production of computers and semiconductors. Utilities output climbed for a second consecutive quarter, and mining output was boosted by increases in natural gas extraction and in crude oil.

The rise in real consumer spending moderated in the fourth quarter, with outlays on non-auto consumer goods increasing weakly. Spending on services rose solidly in November (the most recent month available), led by energy services and commissions paid to stockbrokers, but warmer-than-usual temperatures in December likely damped expenditures for energy services in that month. Sales of light motor vehicles were moderate during the fourth quarter. Real disposable personal income was little changed in the fourth quarter, held down by higher consumer energy prices. Also, the wealth-to-income ratio ticked down in the third quarter, and appeared likely to decline again in the fourth quarter, as equity prices had fallen since the end of the third quarter and available indicators pointed to continued declines in house prices in the fourth quarter. In December, readings on consumer sentiment remained at relatively low levels by historical standards.

Both single-family housing starts and permit issuance fell in December. Meanwhile, multifamily housing starts plunged in December, but permit issuance pointed to a rebound in multifamily starts in the near term. New home sales dropped in November and December after having held relatively steady since August, keeping inventories of unsold homes at elevated levels. Sales of existing homes also moved down in December but, on balance, had declined less in recent months than sales of new homes. Demand for housing through the end of 2007 likely continued to be restrained by tight financing conditions for jumbo and nonprime mortgages.

Real spending on equipment and software rose at a sluggish rate in the fourth quarter after having posted a solid increase in the third quarter. Sales of medium and heavy trucks edged up after falling to a four-year low. Spending on high-tech capital goods increased at a moderate pace over the second half of last year. Outside of the transportation and high-tech sectors, spending on equipment appeared to have declined last quarter after having posted sizable gains over the summer. Orders and shipments rose somewhat in the fourth quarter, but imports in the first two months of the quarter were below their average in the third quarter. Nonresidential construction remained vigorous in the fourth quarter. However, indicators of future spending in this sector pointed to a slowdown in coming months, with a decline in architectural billings, a rise in retail-sector vacancy rates, and survey reports that contractors were experiencing more difficulty in obtaining funding. More generally, surveys of business conditions and sentiment deteriorated and suggested that capital spending would be reduced in the near term.

Real nonfarm inventory investment excluding motor vehicles appeared to have stepped up from its average rate over the first three quarters of 2007. In November, the ratio of manufacturing and trade book-value inventories (excluding motor vehicles) to sales ticked down.

The U.S. international trade deficit widened slightly in October and then more substantially in November, as increases in imports in both months more than offset increases in exports. The increases in imports almost entirely reflected a jump in the value of imported oil. Non-oil goods imports were boosted by a large increase in imports of consumer goods and small increases in several other categories, which more than offset a steep decline in imports of non-oil industrial supplies. Imports of automotive products and capital goods recorded modest gains, with the increase in capital goods primarily reflecting a jump in imports of telecommunications equipment. Imports of services grew strongly. Exports in both months were boosted by higher exports of services. Exports of industrial supplies also recorded a strong gain, aided by a large increase in exports of fuels in November. Higher exports of semiconductors, aircraft, and machinery pushed up exports of capital goods, while exports of agricultural goods increased only slightly following a large jump in the third quarter. In contrast, exports of consumer goods fell from their third-quarter level.

Economic growth in the advanced foreign economies appeared to have slowed in the fourth quarter, with recent data on household expenditures and retail sales weakening on balance and consumers and businesses considerably less upbeat about growth prospects. In Japan, the estimate of real GDP growth in the third quarter was revised down, and business sentiment declined in December amidst concerns about high oil prices. In the euro area, retail sales growth declined in October and November, and consumer and business surveys in November and December pointed to economic weakness. In the United Kingdom, although real GDP grew solidly in the fourth quarter, the estimate of third-quarter real GDP growth was revised down. In Canada, indicators suggested that growth in economic activity moderated in the fourth quarter. Private employment shrank in December after having posted very strong growth in November. Incoming data on emerging-market economies pointed, on balance, to a slowing of growth in the fourth quarter. Overall, growth in emerging Asia appeared to have moderated somewhat in the fourth quarter, with trade balances declining in several countries as exports slowed. Readings on economic activity in Latin America were more mixed. Incoming data suggested that growth slowed in Mexico in the fourth quarter. In Brazil , third-quarter growth was solid, but indicators for the fourth quarter were mixed. Economic activity appeared to be strong in Argentina in both the third and fourth quarters.

In the United States, headline consumer price inflation stepped up noticeably in November and December from the low rates posted in the summer. Part of the increase reflected the rapid rise in energy prices, but prices of core personal consumption expenditures (PCE) also moved up faster in those months than they had earlier in the year. The pickup in core PCE inflation over the second half of 2007 reflected an acceleration in prices that had been unusually soft earlier in the year, such as prices for apparel, prescription drugs, and nonmarket services. For the year as a whole, core PCE prices increased at about the same rate as they had in 2006. Household survey measures of expectations for year-ahead inflation picked up in November and remained at that level in December and January. Households' longer-term inflation expectations rose in December but ticked down in January. Average hourly earnings increased faster in November and December than they had in October, although over the twelve months that ended in December, this wage measure rose a bit more slowly than the elevated pace posted in 2006.

At its December meeting, the FOMC lowered its target for the federal funds rate 25 basis points, to 4-1/4 percent. In addition, the Board of Governors approved a decrease of 25 basis points in the discount rate, to 4-3/4 percent, leaving the gap between the federal funds rate target and the discount rate at 50 basis points. The Committee's statement noted that incoming information suggested that economic growth was slowing, reflecting the intensification of the housing correction and some softening in business and consumer spending. Moreover, strains in financial markets had increased in recent weeks. The Committee indicated that its action, combined with the policy actions taken earlier, should help promote moderate growth over time. Readings on core inflation had improved modestly during the year, but elevated energy and commodity prices, among other factors, might put upward pressure on inflation. In this context, the Committee judged that some inflation risk remained and said that it would continue to monitor inflation developments carefully. Recent developments, including the deterioration in financial market conditions, had increased the uncertainty surrounding the outlook for economic growth and inflation. The Committee stated that it would continue to assess the effects of financial and other developments on economic prospects and would act as needed to foster price stability and sustainable economic growth.