In their discussion of the economic situation and outlook, participants noted that economic activity appeared to have expanded at a moderate pace on balance over the first half of the year.  In view of incoming data and anecdotal information, participants continued to anticipate moderate economic growth in coming quarters, with growth rising gradually to a pace close to that of potential output.  Participants interpreted the most recent information on business spending, business sentiment, and the labor market as suggesting that the risks to growth were more balanced than at the time of the May meeting, despite the ongoing adjustment in the housing sector and the significant recent increases in longer-term interest rates.  Participants generally expected that inflation would probably edge lower over the next two years, reflecting the waning of temporary factors that had boosted prices last year and a slight easing of pressures on resources.  Recent data on core consumer prices were encouraging in this regard, but participants were wary of drawing any firm conclusions about future trends from a few monthly readings that could reflect transitory influences and remained concerned about forces that could contribute to inflation pressures.  Against this backdrop, participants agreed that the risk that inflation would fail to moderate as expected remained their predominant concern.

In preparation for the Federal Reserve’s semiannual report to the Congress on the economy and monetary policy, the members of the Board of Governors and the presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks submitted individual projections of the growth of nominal and real GDP, the rate of unemployment, and core consumer price inflation for the years 2007 and 2008, conditioned on their views of the appropriate path for monetary policy.  The projections for the growth of nominal GDP were in the range of 4-1/2 to 5-1/2 percent, with a central tendency of 4-1/2 to 5 percent for 2007; for 2008, the projections for nominal GDP growth ranged between 4-1/2 to 5-1/2 with a central tendency of 4-3/4 to 5 percent.  Projections for the rate of expansion in real GDP in 2007 were in a range from 2 to 2-3/4 percent in 2007, with a central tendency of 2-1/4 to 2-1/2 percent; for 2008, the projections ranged between 2-1/2 to 3 percent, with a central tendency of 2-1/2 to 2-3/4 percent.  These rates of growth were associated with civilian unemployment rates in the range of 4-1/2 to 4-3/4 percent in the fourth quarter of 2007 and 4-1/2 to 5 percent in the fourth quarter of 2008; the central tendency of these projections was 4-1/2 to 4-3/4 percent in 2007 and about 4-3/4 percent in 2008.  Projections for the rate of inflation, as measured by the core PCE price index, in 2007 were in a range of 2 to 2-1/4 percent in 2007 and 1-3/4 to 2 percent in 2008.  The central tendencies of these projections in 2007 and 2008 were identical to the ranges for those years.
 
Participants generally agreed that the housing sector was likely to remain a drag on growth for some time yet and represented the most significant downside risk to the economic outlook.  Although starts of single-family homes had moved up, on balance, over recent months, permits for new construction continued to decline.  A number of participants noted that inventories of new homes for sale remained quite elevated.  Housing activity was seen as likely to continue to contract for several more quarters.  Participants also identified a number of downside risks associated with their outlook for residential construction.  The recent increase in interest rates for prime mortgages could further dampen the demand for housing.  Moreover, a number of participants pointed to rising mortgage delinquency rates and related difficulties in the subprime mortgage market as factors that could crimp the availability of mortgage credit and the demand for housing.   

Spillovers from the strains in the housing market to consumption spending had apparently been quite limited to date.  To be sure, personal consumption expenditures appeared to be rising more slowly in recent months than earlier in the year, but that development was probably, at least in part, a result of the rise in gasoline prices, which was not expected to be extended.  Participants generally anticipated moderate gains in consumption spending over coming months, supported by the strong labor market and solid growth in personal income.  Still, the advance in spending was expected to fall short of income growth, and the saving rate was anticipated to trend higher over coming quarters from the unusually low levels of recent years.  Some participants noted a risk that the saving rate could rise more than currently foreseen, particularly if household wealth were depressed by a further softening in house prices or by a less buoyant equity market that might accompany a potential slowing in the growth of corporate earnings.  Several participants noted that higher interest rates and a potential tightening in credit availability might also be factors that could contribute to a rise in the personal saving rate.  At the same time, participants recognized that consumption growth had held up to date and saw a risk that the saving rate could fail to rise as much as currently expected, particularly if equity markets continued to register significant gains. 
 
A number of participants remarked that the recent data on business spending were more encouraging than those available at the time of the May meeting.  In particular, orders and shipments for nondefense capital goods had stepped up, on balance, from March through May, and survey indicators of business conditions had improved of late.  Strength in foreign demand for U.S. goods and services was another factor that seemed likely to contribute to the firming of business spending.  Participants noted that inventories appeared to be better aligned with sales, boding well for a resumption of inventory accumulation and a pickup in manufacturing activity.  At the same time, some recognized the possibility that downside risks to investment spending persisted.  Longer-term interest rates and the cost of credit generally had moved higher of late, the growth of business profits seemed to be moderating, and measured productivity growth had been slower.  Although credit market conditions seemed to remain generally quite accommodative, in the days just prior to the meeting, the availability of credit to some highly leveraged and other lower-rated borrowers appeared to be tightening a bit and investors seemed to reevaluate the risks associated with investments in complex and illiquid financial instruments.
 
Strength in spending abroad and the decline in the exchange value of the dollar were seen as factors boosting U.S. exports.  The rise in global interest rates was cited as evidence of increasing global demand, and some participants pointed to strength of aggregate demand worldwide and its potential effect on the prices of imports and globally traded commodities as contributing to upside risks to U.S. inflation.

Most participants judged labor market conditions to remain rather tight, particularly for the most skilled workers.  The continued tautness of labor markets was something of a puzzle in light of below-trend economic growth over recent quarters, and this development seemed to be connected with slower productivity growth lately.  In their discussion of this issue, participants noted that employment data for 2006 could ultimately be revised down, resulting in a corresponding upward revision to productivity.  Some participants also pointed to evidence of lags in employment adjustments, particularly in the construction industry, as a factor depressing productivity in recent quarters.  These observations suggested that the recent decline in productivity growth might prove smaller than now estimated and largely transitory.  Still, some decline in the pace of trend productivity growth could not be ruled out--a development that could have implications for business costs and price pressures.  Some participants further noted that the level of the unemployment rate consistent with stable inflation could be lower than previously thought--a possibility that would help to explain the absence of outsized wage pressures in the current environment.
 
The incoming data on core consumer prices were viewed as favorable, but were not seen as convincing evidence that the recent moderation of core inflation would be sustained.  Participants noted that monthly data on consumer prices are noisy, and recent readings on core inflation seemed to have been depressed by transitory factors.  Moreover, a number of forces could sustain inflation pressures, including the generally high level of resource utilization, elevated energy and commodity prices, the decline in the exchange value of the dollar over recent quarters, and slower productivity growth.  In addition, while core consumer price inflation had moderated of late, total consumer price inflation had moved substantially higher, boosted by rising energy and food prices.  While total inflation was expected to slow toward the pace of core inflation over time, a number of participants noted that recent elevated readings posed some risk of a deterioration in inflation expectations.  On this point, several participants cited the uptick in forward measures of inflation compensation over the intermeeting period derived from Treasury inflation-indexed securities.  However, a portion of this increase might be attributed to technical factors, and survey measures of long-term inflation expectations had held steady over recent weeks.  Nonetheless, several participants emphasized that holding long-run inflation expectations at or below current levels would likely be necessary for core inflation to moderate as expected over coming quarters.