In their discussion of monetary policy for the intermeeting period, members generally regarded the risks to economic growth as more balanced than at the time of the May meeting.  Although the housing market remained a key source of uncertainty about the outlook, members thought it most likely that the overall economy would expand at a moderate pace over coming quarters.  Members generally anticipated that core inflation would remain relatively subdued but concurred that a sustained moderation in inflation had not yet been convincingly demonstrated.  In these circumstances, members agreed that maintaining the target federal funds rate at 5-1/4 percent for this meeting was appropriate and that future policy adjustments would depend on the outlook for economic growth and inflation, as implied by incoming information.

In light of the recent economic data and anecdotal information, the Committee agreed that the statement to be released after the meeting should indicate that the economy seemed to be expanding at a moderate pace over the first half of the year.  Members agreed that while measures of core inflation had improved lately, the statement should indicate that a sustained moderation of inflation remained in question and that high levels of resource utilization had the potential to fuel inflation pressures.  Against this backdrop, members judged that the risk that inflation would fail to moderate as expected remained their predominant concern.

At the conclusion of the discussion, the Committee voted to authorize and direct the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, until it was instructed otherwise, to execute transactions in the System Account in accordance with the following domestic policy directive:

“The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions that will foster price stability and promote sustainable growth in output.  To further its long-run objectives, the Committee in the immediate future seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with maintaining the federal funds rate at an average of around 5-1/4 percent.”

The vote encompassed approval of the text below for inclusion in the statement to be released at 2:15 p.m.:

“In these circumstances, the Committee’s predominant policy concern remains the risk that inflation will fail to moderate as expected.  Future policy adjustments will depend on the evolution of the outlook for both inflation and economic growth, as implied by incoming information.”   

Votes for this action: Messrs. Bernanke, Geithner, Hoenig, Kohn, and Kroszner, Ms. Minehan, Messrs. Mishkin, Moskow, Poole, and Warsh.

Votes against this action: None.

The Committee then again took up the topic of monetary policy communications.  The discussion at this meeting focused on several key elements of the Committee’s communications vehicles:  the statement released after each FOMC meeting; the minutes of FOMC meetings; and the projections of FOMC participants that are summarized in the Federal Reserve’s semiannual monetary policy reports to the Congress.  The Committee made no decisions at this meeting, and it was understood that the subcommittee on communications issues would review the Committee’s discussions to date on these matters.

It was agreed that the next meeting of the Committee would be held on Tuesday, August 7, 2007.

The meeting adjourned at 2:20 p.m.

Notation Vote

By notation vote completed on May 29, 2007, the Committee unanimously approved the minutes of the FOMC meeting held on May 9, 2007.