The information reviewed at the June meeting suggested that the expansion of economic activity rebounded in the second quarter from its subpar pace in the first quarter.  Upswings in net exports and inventory investment were expected to contribute importantly to the rise in real GDP.  Consumer spending appeared to have slowed from its rapid pace earlier in the year, while business fixed investment continued to rise at a modest rate.  Residential construction remained weak as builders worked further to clear high inventories of unsold homes.  Sharp increases in energy prices drove up overall inflation in April and appeared to have done so again in May; core inflation seemed to have remained subdued.

Employment continued to rise at a moderate pace; the average monthly increase in payroll employment in April and May was a little below that of the first quarter.  In May, employment was boosted by strong hiring in the service sector, but the manufacturing and retail sectors continued to shed jobs.  Larger payrolls and a slightly longer average workweek in May led to an increase in aggregate hours; the unemployment rate held steady at 4.5 percent.

Industrial production increased modestly in April and May after having been little changed in the first quarter when some manufacturers restrained production to cope with a buildup in inventories.  Manufacturing output edged up in recent months, reflecting increases in the output of light motor vehicles, other consumer durable goods, construction supplies, and durable materials.  The production of high-tech industries also rose, albeit at a relatively sluggish pace compared with the brisk expansion seen around the turn of the year.  Capacity utilization in the manufacturing sector in May was close to its long-run average and slightly below its level one year earlier.

The pace of real consumer spending appeared to have slowed somewhat in the second quarter after substantial increases late last year and early this year.  The deceleration primarily reflected a flattening out of outlays for goods in recent months; spending on services continued to rise at a solid pace for the quarter as a whole, although the monthly pattern was affected by weather-related swings in outlays on energy services.  The determinants of household spending were broadly supportive.  Real disposable personal income rose at a moderate pace, on average, in the first four months of the year, boosted not only by ongoing gains in wages and salaries, but also by unusually large bonus payments and stock option exercises in the first quarter.  Although the household wealth-to-income ratio ticked down in the first quarter with the stock market up only a little and house prices remaining soft, the increase in stock prices in the second quarter likely made up much of the lost ground.

Elevated inventories of unsold new homes continued to weigh on residential construction activity.  In May, single-family housing starts declined, and adjusted permit issuance for the single-family sector stepped down further, indicating that builders were intending to slow further the pace of new construction.  The monthly readings on sales of new and existing homes through May had fluctuated around levels lower than the average over the second half of 2006.  Some, though not all, of this weakening in home sales was likely related to the tightening of lending standards for nonprime borrowers that began in February.  Even though the inventory of new homes for sale ticked down in May, the months’ supply in May remained noticeably above its level in late 2006.  According to OFHEO’s purchase-only price index for existing homes, house-price appreciation continued to slow in the first quarter.

Outlays for nonresidential construction appeared to have remained robust early in the second quarter.  Business spending on equipment and software in recent months appeared to be about unchanged from the first quarter, although the softness was largely confined to outlays for transportation equipment.  Shipments and orders for items other than transportation moved up markedly in March and April after weakness in earlier months, and, even with the small declines in May, the data pointed to a healthy rise in outlays in the second quarter.  In particular, real spending on equipment other than high-tech and transportation seemed to be rebounding after sizable declines over the previous two quarters.  After a surge in outlays on computers in the first quarter, spending on high-tech equipment appeared to be rising at a more modest pace in April and May.  In contrast, spending on transportation equipment declined significantly.  Purchases of medium and heavy trucks dropped further in May, continuing to reflect the payback from sales that were pulled forward into 2005 and 2006 in anticipation of tighter emissions standards that took effect in January.  New orders for trucks picked up in May, albeit from very low levels.  Shipments data indicated that spending on aircraft dropped back from the elevated level in the first quarter.  The downtrend in the cost of capital was likely curtailed in recent weeks by the rise in corporate bond rates.  Nonetheless, firms retained ample cash in reserve to finance investment. 
 
Real nonfarm inventory investment excluding motor vehicles slowed appreciably in the first quarter of 2007, as firms in most industries appeared to have made considerable progress in addressing the inventory overhangs that developed in 2006.  The adjustment apparently continued into the second quarter, as the ratio of inventories to sales for manufacturing and trade excluding motor vehicles ticked down further in April after a March decline.  Inventories of light motor vehicles, which were pared down to more comfortable levels during the first quarter, continued to edge lower through May.  Indeed, the inventory adjustment reached the point that, for the third month in a row, the May survey of purchasing managers indicated that, on net, more firms viewed their customers’ inventory levels as too low rather than too high.   

After no change between the fourth quarter and first quarter, the U.S. international trade deficit narrowed in April from its March level.  The recent narrowing reflected a steep decline in many categories of goods imports and a modest increase in exports, especially of agricultural products.  Nominal imports of petroleum were flat in April after surging in March despite steady increases in the price of imported oil.

Economic activity in advanced foreign economies appeared to have grown at a solid rate in the first quarter.  Economic growth in Canada rebounded sharply from a disappointing fourth quarter, and growth picked up in the United Kingdom, owing primarily to a robust expansion in the service sector.  In the euro area, export growth in the first quarter slowed from its rapid fourth-quarter pace, and the hike in the German value-added tax likely temporarily depressed first-quarter consumption growth   Consumer spending showed signs of recovering in recent months, and overall, economic conditions in the euro area remained solid.  In Japan, recent data suggested that growth in the second quarter had moderated from the vigorous first-quarter pace, with public spending and net exports likely sources of weakness.  Recent data indicated that economic activity in emerging-market economies remained strong.  Growth in China and India appeared to have moderated somewhat from the very high rates of the first quarter.  In Latin America, indicators for Mexico suggested some recovery from the marked slowdown of the previous few quarters, while growth in Argentina and Brazil appeared to pick up as well.
 
Headline consumer price inflation stepped up in recent months, driven by large increases in the index for energy.  However, readings on core inflation had declined.  Core PCE prices rose 0.1 percent in April and were estimated to have posted a similar, modest increase in May.  The recent readings had been held down, in part, by declines in volatile categories such as apparel and tobacco products that were likely to prove transitory; the rent components had also decelerated.  The twelve-month change in core PCE prices in May was expected to be lower than the increase over the year-earlier period; however, over that longer period, the decline in core PCE inflation was almost entirely the result of a slowing in its nonmarket component.  Household surveys conducted in early June indicated that the median expectation for year-ahead inflation increased further, consistent with the energy-driven acceleration in overall consumer prices in recent months.  After edging higher in April and May, median expectations of longer-term inflation fell back in June and remained in the narrow range seen over the past two years.  The twelve-month change in average hourly earnings for production or nonsupervisory workers edged lower in recent months.
 
At its May meeting, the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) maintained its target for the federal funds rate at 5-1/4 percent.  The Committee’s accompanying statement noted that economic growth slowed in the first part of the year and that the adjustment in the housing sector was ongoing.  Nevertheless, the economy seemed likely to expand at a moderate pace over coming quarters.  Core inflation remained somewhat elevated.  Although inflation pressures seemed likely to moderate over time, the high level of resource utilization had the potential to sustain those pressures.  The Committee's predominant policy concern remained the risk that inflation would fail to moderate as expected.  Future policy adjustments would depend on the evolution of the outlook for both inflation and economic growth, as implied by incoming information.