The information reviewed at this meeting suggested that, before the landfall of Hurricane Katrina on the Gulf Coast, expansion of economic activity had been solid, led by robust gains in housing and buoyant consumer spending. While business investment appeared to be losing some momentum, labor markets continued to improve, and increases in core CPI and PCE prices were modest after notable increases earlier in the year. Only limited data bearing on the likely economic effects of the hurricane were available. Oil and gasoline prices, however, were on the rise, spiking to record levels in the days immediately following the hurricane.

Payroll employment grew at a good pace in August, and the average increase over the most recent three months was largely on par with the advances made since the fourth quarter of last year. Employment gains were widespread across industries, with the exception of the manufacturing sector, which continued to post small job losses. With employment increasing and the average workweek of production or nonsupervisory workers unchanged in August, aggregate hours continued to firm modestly. The unemployment rate dipped to 4.9 percent in August, its lowest level since August 2001. Given the increase in the labor-force participation rate reported for the month, the employment-population ratio rose to its highest level in three years. Initial claims for unemployment insurance jumped in the latest available week, however, as workers in the Gulf Coast region began to file claims.

Industrial production increased only slightly in August; the staff estimated that the curtailment of activity as a result of Hurricane Katrina shaved 0.3 percent from the index. Petroleum refining and crude oil and natural gas extraction were especially hard hit by the storm. The output of utilities declined in August after surging earlier in the summer in response to unseasonably warm weather. Higher production of motor vehicles and parts boosted manufacturing output. After slowing in the second quarter, the pace of production in the high-tech sector accelerated somewhat in recent months, owing to increased output of communications equipment and semiconductors. Overall capacity utilization through August remained close to its highest level since December 2000.

Real personal consumption expenditures, boosted by motor vehicles purchases in response to employee-discount programs, were robust during the summer. Spending on goods outside the automobile sector and on services was moderate. Strong overall spending along with lackluster real income growth put downward pressure on the saving rate. Survey measures of consumer confidence early in August were generally consistent with solid increases in spending, but confidence fell appreciably in the period immediately after the storm.

Activity in the housing sector remained brisk. Starts of new single-family homes in July were slightly above their average level for the first half of the year. New home sales advanced further in July, and existing home sales stayed elevated. Mortgage rates remained low and supported demand. Prices of existing homes again rose briskly, while price appreciation for new homes moderated somewhat.

Although real outlays for equipment and software increased solidly in the second quarter, available data on orders and shipments suggested some softness in the third quarter. Amid continued rapid expansion in business output, favorable financing conditions, and ample cash balances, the fundamentals stayed positive. Real spending on nonresidential construction remained lackluster despite incremental improvements in nonresidential property market conditions this year.

Investment in real nonfarm inventories excluding motor vehicles slowed markedly in the second quarter, and partial data for July suggested that real stockbuilding continued to be subdued. The slower rate of inventory accumulation suggested that firms had largely completed the stockbuilding that had been prompted by earlier low ratios of inventories to sales.

The U.S. international trade deficit narrowed somewhat in July, as the value of exports of goods and services rose slightly and the value of imports declined. The value of oil imports increased strongly in July but that rise was offset by decreases in imports of services and of non-oil goods. GDP growth in foreign industrial economies picked up, on balance, in the second quarter, but performance across economies was mixed.

Core consumer price inflation remained benign in July and August. However, the surge in energy prices considerably boosted overall consumer price inflation over those months. Gasoline prices in particular rose steeply in August, and survey data pointed to a larger increase in early September. Producer price inflation was subdued. One survey of households in early September indicated that near-term inflation expectations jumped and that longer-term inflation expectations edged higher. With regard to labor costs, the employment cost index for private industry workers rose at a modest pace in the second quarter, and the twelve-month change in this index declined from that of a year earlier. Average hourly earnings rose only moderately over the past twelve months.

At its August meeting, the Federal Open Market Committee decided to increase the target level of the federal funds rate 25 basis points, to 3-1/2 percent. In its accompanying statement, the Committee indicated that, with appropriate monetary policy action, the upside and downside risks to the attainment of sustainable growth and price stability should be kept roughly equal. In addition, the Committee noted that, despite high energy prices, aggregate spending appeared to have strengthened, labor market conditions continued to improve gradually, and longer-term inflation expectations remained well contained, although pressures on inflation had stayed elevated. In these circumstances, the Committee believed that policy accommodation could be removed at a pace that would likely be measured but noted that it would respond to changes in economic prospects as needed to fulfill its obligation to maintain price stability.