In their discussion of the economic situation and outlook, meeting participants agreed that output and employment appeared to have been growing at a good pace before Hurricane Katrina's landfall. Business fixed investment had been a little softer than expected, but household spending had been especially strong. Participants agreed that the widespread devastation in the Gulf Coast region and the dislocation of many people would hold down indicators of spending for a time. But they also were of the view that aggregate demand and output would likely rebound before long, fueled in part by private spending to rebuild and outlays by the federal government to assist in the recovery. With growth of the economy expected to recover, meeting participants were concerned that price pressures, which had been elevated before the storm, could climb further, primarily as a result of additional increases in energy prices.

Meeting participants recognized that Hurricane Katrina would have significant effects on the U.S. economy, but the size and timing of those effects were uncertain. Economic activity in the Gulf Coast region would be disrupted by the destruction of capital and the displacement of a large population, perhaps for an extended period. Moreover, damage to infrastructure for extracting and processing oil and natural gas was expected to be substantial, with significant near-term implications for energy prices and the national economy, and the projected track of Hurricane Rita raised additional concerns. In that environment, the prices of crude oil, natural gas, and gasoline likely would remain elevated and subject to considerable volatility, particularly given the limited spare capacity available in energy extraction and refining industries. Participants noted that very substantial rebuilding would probably be underway soon, supported importantly by government programs. The pace at which reconstruction activity would take place, however, was uncertain, as it depended in part on factors that were still difficult to assess, such as how quickly the affected areas could again be made habitable. On balance, participants thought that there would likely be a significant shift in the timing of aggregate economic activity over the next several quarters but probably little effect on the economy's intermediate-term growth prospects. Several participants voiced concern that the effects of the hurricane were likely to add to already considerable pressures on prices.

For the nation as a whole, participants noted that household spending had been fairly robust before the hurricane, supported by strong advances in income and continuing gains in wealth that reflected in part further large increases in home prices. Most anecdotal information supported the indications from available data that activity in housing markets generally remained brisk. The termination of some inducements to purchase motor vehicles was expected to retard expenditures on consumer durables in the latter part of this year. The reduction in real disposable incomes caused by large increases in consumer energy prices was also anticipated to restrain consumer spending, with business contacts indicating that retail outlets that typically serve lower- and middle-income households could see particular weakness. The reduction in spending as a result of higher energy prices and hurricane-related dislocations could be augmented by a weakening of consumer attitudes. Many of the restraining effects were thought likely to dissipate over time, however. Retail energy prices were likely to retrace at least a portion of the post-hurricane increase, and consumer confidence should rebound. Moreover, demands for consumer durables, as well as housing, would receive support as hurricane victims repaired or replaced lost property, with help from insurance payments and government transfers. Although uncertainties about the outlook for spending had increased, it appeared that, over time, consumption would probably expand at a moderate pace--perhaps a little below the pace of income growth once the increases in house prices slowed to more historically typical rates.

Meeting participants noted that, even prior to the hurricane, business fixed investment had been somewhat weaker than expected. The softness was somewhat puzzling, as sales were growing, business balance sheets appeared quite strong in the aggregate, profitability was high, and financing was readily available and relatively inexpensive for most firms. Although the apparent sluggishness could reflect only short-term fluctuations in volatile data series, some evidence suggested that it may also have stemmed from concern among business executives about the effects of high energy prices. The anecdotal information on commercial real estate markets was mixed, with some districts reporting firming markets while activity elsewhere was said to remain subpar.

With regard to fiscal policy, meeting participants noted that federal outlays would increase sharply in order to assist with recovery and reconstruction efforts in the aftermath of the hurricane. The eventual size of the increment to federal outlays was unclear, but it was likely to be quite large. The substantial step-up in government spending would add to federal deficits that were already large and underscored the worrisome loss of fiscal discipline evident in recent years. The expansion of federal spending implied an increase in fiscal stimulus at a time when the margin of unutilized resources in the overall economy was probably thin.

Participants' concerns about inflation prospects generally had increased over the intermeeting period. The surge in energy prices, in particular, was boosting overall inflation, and some of that increase would probably pass through for a time into core prices. This posed the risk that there could be a more persistent influence on inflation should inflation expectations rise. Indeed, some recent survey evidence on such expectations had been troubling, and widening federal deficits were mentioned as a factor that could further stir inflationary concerns. Measures of labor costs were giving conflicting signals, with some indexes indicating that growth in labor compensation remained relatively low but another showing appreciably more rapid increases. Anecdotal information continued to point to shortages of certain types of labor, such as truck drivers, and some business contacts reported difficulties in hiring more generally, a development that had prompted some firms to boost wages. Underlying productivity growth to date apparently had remained robust but, at this stage of the business cycle, gains in productivity could not necessarily be counted on to stay strong. The prices of a number of intermediate goods, including a wide range of petrochemical products and building materials, were subject to upward pressure, reflecting high crude oil prices, production disruptions in the energy sector, and elevated demands for materials in anticipation of rebuilding in the Gulf Coast region. Still, core inflation in recent months had been quite damped, and market-based measures of longer-term inflation expectations had risen only modestly of late. It was observed that, after the early 1980s, the pass-through of energy prices into core inflation had been quite limited, suggesting that, in current circumstances, core inflation could stay relatively low and overall inflation would probably drop back if inflation expectations remained contained.