The information received at this meeting suggested that final demand had expanded at a solid pace in the second quarter, led by a surge in net exports and another robust gain in residential investment, while business investment and consumer spending rose at moderate rates. The labor market continued to improve gradually in June and July. Core CPI and PCE prices decelerated in recent months, after notable increases earlier in the year. Crude oil prices continued to rise, reaching record levels in nominal terms over the intermeeting period.

Payroll employment grew in June and July at a pace that was roughly on par with that over the preceding six months. Hiring in the services and construction sectors remained strong, but the manufacturing sector posted further small job losses. With employment increasing and the average workweek of production or nonsupervisory workers unchanged over these two months, aggregate hours continued to firm. The unemployment rate dipped to 5.0 percent in June and held steady at that rate in July. Initial claims for unemployment insurance remained at low levels.

Industrial production picked up in June. A jump in utilities output, apparently owing to unseasonably warm weather, accounted for more than half of the gain. Motor vehicle production also rose a good bit, but the pace of production growth in the high-tech sector was sluggish, reflecting a decline in the output of communications equipment. Overall capacity utilization moved up to its highest level since December 2000.

Real personal consumption expenditures increased at a moderate pace in the second quarter, buoyed by a surge in purchases of motor vehicles that appeared to be due largely to the extension by an automaker of its "employee discount" program to the general public. Excluding spending on motor vehicles, the growth of real personal consumption expenditures slowed slightly in the second quarter. Survey measures of consumer confidence continued to be quite favorable in July.

Activity in the housing sector remained robust. In June, starts of single-family homes maintained the strong pace of earlier this year. Both new and existing home sales jumped. Mortgage rates remained low, and house prices apparently continued to rise briskly.

Business spending on equipment and software posted a solid increase in the second quarter, boosted by a surge in outlays for transportation equipment. Excluding this volatile component, business spending on equipment and software decelerated markedly in the second quarter. Spending on nonresidential construction remained subdued. Nonetheless, fundamentals appeared to continue to support business investment, with the user cost of capital still low and corporations experiencing strong cash flows and holding ample liquid assets.

Real nonfarm inventories edged down in the second quarter, after a substantial rise in the first quarter. The strong pace of motor vehicle sales contributed to the runoff of inventories in the second quarter. Outside the automobile sector, real nonfarm inventories continued to rise, but at a much slower pace than earlier in the year. The inventory-sales ratio for the nonfarm business sector declined further from an already low level, continuing its long-term downward trend.

The U.S. international trade deficit narrowed in May as the value of exports of goods and services rose slightly and the value of imports declined, partly reflecting a sharp drop in the value of oil imports. GDP growth in a number of major foreign industrial economies appeared to have slowed a bit in the second quarter.

Consumer prices were about unchanged in June after posting notable increases earlier in the year. Consumer energy prices reversed a small part of their previous run-up, and core consumer inflation remained low. The producer price index was unchanged in June. The annual revisions to the national income and product accounts, which were released in early August, included a substantial upward revision to core PCE inflation for 2004, from 1.6 percent to 2.2 percent, reflecting changes to the nonmarket-based components of the index. Survey measures of near-term inflation expectations edged down in July, and longer-term inflation expectations firmed only a touch. The employment cost index for private industry workers again rose at a modest pace in the second quarter, and increases in compensation per hour in the nonfarm business sector slowed somewhat from the rapid rate of the first quarter.

At its June meeting, the Federal Open Market Committee decided to increase the target level of the federal funds rate 25 basis points, to 3¼ percent. In its accompanying statement, the Committee indicated that, with appropriate monetary policy action, the upside and downside risks to the attainment of both sustainable growth and price stability should be kept roughly equal. In addition, the Committee noted that the expansion remained firm, that labor market conditions continued to improve gradually, and that, although pressures on inflation had remained elevated, longer-term inflation expectations remained well contained. In these circumstances, the Committee believed that policy accommodation could be removed at a pace that would likely be measured but noted that it would respond to changes in economic prospects as needed to fulfill its obligation to maintain price stability.