In the Committee's discussion of monetary policy for the intermeeting period, all of the members favored raising the target federal funds rate by 25 basis points to 3½ percent at this meeting. Even with this action, the federal funds rate would remain below the level that members anticipated would prove necessary to contain inflation pressures and keep output near potential, and thus in all likelihood further policy action would be required. However, the pace of future policy moves, although likely to be measured, as well as the extent of those moves, would depend on incoming data.

In discussing the statement to be released after the meeting, members agreed that it was appropriate to highlight the apparent strengthening in aggregate spending. Policymakers exchanged views on the characterization of labor market conditions in light of recent employment reports and other indicators, but members ultimately concurred that the description of labor markets as "improving gradually" remained appropriate. Members agreed that it was appropriate to acknowledge the recent relatively low monthly rates of core inflation, but also to emphasize that inflation pressures remained elevated. As in past meetings, there was some discussion about the desirability of including forward-looking language in the statement, but members agreed to retain the forward-looking language for now.

At the conclusion of the discussion, the Committee voted to authorize and direct the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, until it was instructed otherwise, to execute transactions in the System Account in accordance with the following domestic policy directive:

"The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions that will foster price stability and promote sustainable growth in output. To further its long-run objectives, the Committee in the immediate future seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with increasing the federal funds rate to an average of around 3½ percent."
The vote encompassed approval of the paragraph below for inclusion in the statement to be released shortly after the meeting:

"The Committee perceives that, with appropriate monetary policy action, the upside and downside risks to the attainment of both sustainable growth and price stability should be kept roughly equal. With underlying inflation expected to be contained, the Committee believes that policy accommodation can be removed at a pace that is likely to be measured. Nonetheless, the Committee will respond to changes in economic prospects as needed to fulfill its obligation to maintain price stability."
Votes for this action: Messrs. Greenspan and Geithner, Ms. Bies, Messrs. Ferguson, Fisher, Kohn, Moskow, Olson, Santomero, and Stern.

Vote against this action: None.

Absent and not voting: Mr. Gramlich.

It was agreed that the next meeting of the Committee would be held on Tuesday, September 20, 2005.

The meeting adjourned at 1:00 p.m.

Notation Vote
By notation vote completed on July 20, 2005, the Committee unanimously approved the minutes of the meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee held on June 29-30, 2005.