In their discussion of current conditions and the economic outlook, meeting participants noted that aggregate spending appeared to have picked up in recent months by more than anticipated and that current estimates of slack were narrower than those reviewed at the June meeting. In addition, high and rising energy prices were adding to pressures on overall inflation, and energy price increases probably would feed through, at least temporarily, to core measures of inflation. Nonetheless, core inflation recently had been relatively low and inflation expectations remained well contained. Moreover, participants thought that some slowing in final sales was likely later this year as net exports resumed their decline and purchases of automobiles fell back with the expiration of special discount programs. In these circumstances, it appeared that, for now, continued removal of policy accommodation at a measured pace still would likely be sufficient to keep inflation contained, but participants also recognized that the pace and cumulative extent of policy adjustment going forward would depend importantly on economic developments.

In the household sector, the path for spending was expected to be bolstered in the near term by still-low interest rates, solid growth in disposable income, and ongoing increases in wealth. However, elevated energy prices were seen as likely to be a significant drag on consumption and, on net, household spending was expected to advance at a moderate pace. Housing sales and construction activity generally remained strong across the country, but meeting participants noted anecdotal evidence of some cooling in housing markets in certain areas. And at least some banks were reportedly beginning to apply somewhat tighter standards in real estate lending and becoming more cautious in their promotion of nontraditional mortgage products. Participants generally anticipated that the pace of home price appreciation would slow over time, though the timing and extent of that slowing, as well as its implications for consumer spending, were quite uncertain.

Participants indicated that business investment had been evolving roughly in line with their expectations. Strong fundamentals, including low interest rates, wide profit margins, and a high level of liquid assets, were seen as supporting expenditures on software and equipment going forward. Inventory investment declined in the second quarter, with much of the falloff concentrated in the motor vehicle industry, where sales had been boosted sharply by the introduction of special discount programs. Inventories now seemed to be coming in line with the trend in final demand and were anticipated to expand along with sales later this year.

Participants viewed the increases in market interest rates over the intermeeting period as an appropriate response to the stronger economic outlook. A few participants voiced concerns that still-low interest rates and insufficient recognition by investors of the dependency of the Committee's policy expectations on economic data were continuing to foster an inappropriate degree of risk-taking in financial markets. Another participant mentioned, however, that recent sluggish growth of the monetary aggregates suggested that the stance of policy was not overly accommodative. Moreover, with a higher proportion of mortgages now tied to short-term rates, it was noted that increases in short-term rates could have a somewhat larger-than-usual effect on spending. On balance, current financial conditions, which embedded expectations of future policy tightening, were generally seen as likely to be consistent with sustained moderate economic growth and containment of pressures on inflation in coming quarters.

Regarding the federal budget, a recent narrowing of the deficit was noted, but the improvement appeared to be attributable to cyclical factors and to increases in the level of tax collections that were not likely to be repeated. Few signs were evident that greater fiscal discipline in the budget process would emerge any time soon. As a result, federal deficits were expected to continue to act as a considerable drain on national saving over the longer run.

Although net exports had been significantly higher over the second quarter than had been expected, participants did not see this development as signaling the beginning of a sustained improvement in the trade and current account balances. The strong advance in exports and weakness in imports in the second quarter seemed largely attributable to special factors. Continued brisk import growth appeared likely to be sustained for the foreseeable future by gains in domestic demand.

Participants discussed at length the factors affecting costs and prices. Although uncertainties about the underlying pace of productivity increases, trends in labor force participation, and the level of potential output complicated the inflation outlook, higher energy prices and reduced resource slack were seen as pointing to elevated inflation pressures. While recent monthly readings indicated that core inflation had been subdued, a number of participants noted that underlying core inflation appeared to be running at a pace around the upper end of the range they viewed as consistent with price stability-an assessment that was reinforced by the recent upward revisions to historical data on core PCE inflation. Participants commented that an increase in inflation from recent rates could have especially adverse effects on longer-run economic performance.

While most participants viewed the risks to inflation as having ticked up over the intermeeting period, many also cited factors that, in concert with the likely continued removal of policy accommodation, would tend to hold inflation pressures in check. For example, few indications had emerged recently that businesses had enjoyed any significant increase in pricing power, and the continuing expansion of global trade was seen as an important factor limiting firms' ability to pass through cost increases. In these circumstances and with markups at relatively high levels, a substantial proportion of any increases in business costs might well be reflected in narrower profit margins. Moreover, the recent relatively low monthly readings on core inflation and modest wage pressures, at least by some measures, suggested that some slack remained in resource utilization. Despite the rise in oil prices and quickening pace of economic activity, both market- and survey-based measures of inflation expectations seemed to remain quite well anchored.