Investors anticipated the FOMC's decision at its May meeting to raise the federal funds rate target 25 basis points, but near-term policy expectations edged up, apparently in response to the accompanying statement. Subsequent data releases reporting higher-than-expected inflation, the release of the FOMC minutes, and speeches by Federal Reserve policymakers all led investors to push up their expectations for the future path of the federal funds rate. Yields on near-term nominal Treasury securities rose in line with policy expectations over the intermeeting period, but those on longer-dated securities moved up by smaller amounts. Yields on inflation-indexed Treasury securities increased by more than those on nominal securities, and the resulting decline in inflation compensation retraced a substantial share of the rise that had occurred over the preceding intermeeting period. Major stock price indexes fell sharply over the period. Spreads of yields on corporate bonds over those on comparable-maturity Treasury securities widened somewhat, while those on speculative-grade issues rose by more.

After changing little on balance during much of May, the dollar's foreign exchange value against other major currencies moved up in June and showed a modest increase, on net, over the intermeeting period. The dollar appreciated after comments by FOMC policymakers that were interpreted by market participants as suggesting a higher likelihood of policy tightening at the June FOMC meeting. Prices of precious and industrial metals, which had risen sharply since early March, particularly in May, reversed those gains later in the intermeeting period.

Debt of the domestic nonfinancial sectors was estimated to have decelerated in the second quarter after a robust first-quarter increase. Business sector debt advanced more slowly in the second quarter, although the expansion of business loans remained brisk and net issuance of corporate bonds was solid. In the household sector, mortgage borrowing slowed in response to more subdued housing activity and moderating house-price appreciation. M2 growth in the second quarter was tepid, as the growth of nominal income had apparently softened and rising opportunity cost continued to dampen demand for money.