By unanimous vote, the Committee approved a "Report and Plan of the Federal Open Market Committee to Improve FOIA Operations" and approved a delegation of authority to the Chairman (or his designee) to take actions required under the Freedom of Information Act.

All Committee members agreed that raising the target for the federal funds rate 25 basis points, to 5-1/4 percent, at this meeting was appropriate given the recent readings on inflation and the associated deterioration in the inflation outlook. Such an action would also help preserve the decline in inflation expectations that had occurred over the intermeeting period and which appeared to be conditioned on an outlook for a policy firming. Characterizing the resulting stance of policy was quite difficult in the view of most members; those who did venture a judgment saw the stance as ranging from modestly restrictive to somewhat accommodative. Many members noted that significant uncertainty accompanied the appropriate setting of policy going forward, and one indicated that the decision to raise the target federal funds rate at this meeting was a close call.

In their discussion of the wording of the statement to be released after the meeting, members expressed a wide range of views. Some members favored a shorter statement that focused on the Committee's desire to see core inflation decline from its recent elevated levels, while others were inclined to provide more information about the forces that would likely influence the future path of policy. In light of the possibility that the lessening of inflation pressures could be more limited than consistent with sustained good performance of the economy, members agreed to indicate that "[a]lthough the moderation in the growth of aggregate demand should help to limit inflation pressures over time . . . some inflation risks remain." Nevertheless, with the economy slowing and some of the effects of past tightening still in the pipeline, members recognized the value of accumulating more information for determining what, if any, additional policy action would be needed following the tightening adopted at the current meeting. To indicate that policy action at future meetings was not foreordained and would depend on the forecasts for inflation and activity in the medium term, the Committee agreed to state that "[t]he extent and timing of any additional firming that may be needed to address these risks will depend on the evolution of the outlook for both inflation and economic growth, as implied by incoming information."

After consulting with the participants, the communications subcommittee recommended that the Committee begin its discussions of communications issues at the FOMC meeting in August and that the FOMC meetings scheduled for later this year be lengthened to allow a fuller initial discussion of some of these issues. The Committee also discussed briefly the schedule for FOMC meetings next year and tentatively agreed to increase the number of two-day meetings to four.

At the conclusion of the discussion, the Committee voted to authorize and direct the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, until it was instructed otherwise, to execute transactions in the System Account in accordance with the following domestic policy directive:

"The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions that will foster price stability and promote sustainable growth in output. To further its long-run objectives, the Committee in the immediate future seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with increasing the federal funds rate to an average of around 5-1/4 percent."
The vote encompassed approval of the paragraph below for inclusion in the statement to be released shortly after the meeting:

"Although the moderation in the growth of aggregate demand should help to limit inflation pressures over time, the Committee judges that some inflation risks remain. The extent and timing of any additional firming that may be needed to address these risks will depend on the evolution of the outlook for both inflation and economic growth, as implied by incoming information. In any event, the Committee will respond to changes in economic prospects as needed to support the attainment of its objectives."
Votes for this action: Messrs. Bernanke and Geithner, Ms. Bies, Messrs. Guynn, Kohn, Kroszner, and Lacker, Ms. Pianalto, Mr. Warsh, and Ms.Yellen.

Votes against this action: None.

The meeting adjourned at 11:10 a.m.

Notation Vote
By notation vote completed on May 30, 2006, the Committee unanimously approved the minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee meeting held on May 10, 2006.