In their discussion of the economic situation and outlook, meeting participants saw economic growth as having moderated in the second quarter from its robust pace in the first quarter, reflecting a cooling of the housing market and the lagged effects of increases in interest rates and energy prices. Most participants expected output to advance over the next year and a half at a pace close to that which the economy can sustain over time. All participants found the elevated readings on core inflation of recent months to be of concern and, if sustained, inconsistent with the maintenance of price stability. However, contained inflation expectations, the abatement of upward pressure from past increases in energy and other commodity prices, and the slowing in the growth of economic activity that was under way were expected to contribute to a moderation in core inflation in coming quarters. Nonetheless, participants noted a risk that the drop-back in inflation could be slower or more limited than the Committee would find desirable since resource utilization was currently tight and the pickup in price increases had been broadly based rather than being limited to a few specific sectors that could be linked to energy costs.

In preparation for the Federal Reserve's semiannual report to the Congress on monetary policy, the members of the Board of Governors and the presidents of the Reserve Banks submitted individual projections of the growth of GDP, the rate of unemployment, and core consumer price inflation for 2006 and 2007, conditioned on the participants' views of the appropriate path for monetary policy. The forecasts of the rate of fourth-quarter to fourth-quarter expansion in real GDP for 2006 were in a range of 3 to 3-3/4 percent, with a central tendency of 3-1/4 to 3-1/2 percent, and those for 2007 were in a range of 2-1/2 to 3-1/4 percent, with a central tendency of 3 to 3-1/4 percent. These rates of growth were associated with a civilian unemployment rate in a range of 4-1/2 to 5 percent in the fourth quarter of this year and 4-1/4 to 5-1/4 percent in the fourth quarter of 2007, with a central tendency at both horizons of 4-3/4 to 5 percent. Forecasts of the rate of inflation, as measured by the change in the average fourth-quarter core PCE price index from a year earlier, ranged from 2-1/4 to 3 percent for this year, with a central tendency of 2-1/4 to 2-1/2 percent, and the range and central tendency were 2 to 2-1/4 percent for next year.

In their discussion of the major sectors of the economy, participants observed that housing construction activity had declined notably in recent months as indicated by lower housing starts and permits; moreover, higher inventories of unsold homes, a sharp rise in cancellations of new home sales, and reports from construction companies suggested that the weakness was likely to be extended. Several participants pointed out that the decline was broadly in line with expectations in light of the tightening in monetary policy and the rapid run-up in home prices and residential construction in recent years. Participants also observed that the evidence to date indicated that the slowdown was orderly but were mindful of the possibility of a sharper downturn in the sector.

The growth of consumer spending had dropped off significantly in the second quarter from a robust pace earlier in the year. The slowdown was attributed in part to higher energy prices and also to a likely downshift in home price appreciation and higher interest rates. A reduction in the attractiveness of home equity borrowing was mentioned as possibly contributing to the slowdown. Some retailers, especially those catering to lower- and middle-income customers, reported weaker growth in sales. Consumer spending was expected to advance modestly in coming quarters as the effects of more moderate gains in home prices and a gradual rebound in the household saving rate from recent historically low levels were offset by further gains in employment and growth in labor income. A few participants noted that the surge in federal tax receipts this year and a similar advance in revenue at the state level could be a sign of vigorous gains in income, indicating that household spending may expand more rapidly than many were anticipating.

Participants interpreted the incoming data on orders and shipments of durable goods, positive readings on business sentiment, and continued high levels of corporate profitability as suggesting that business investment would remain a source of strength going forward. In a shift from the pattern observed in the past few years, some contacts suggested that businesses were now directing their capital expenditures toward expanding capacity rather than increasing efficiency, a signal of the anticipation of continued solid growth in demand. Business expenditures on nonresidential structures also were seen to be advancing robustly in a number of markets, possibly providing some offset to reduced residential construction activity. Several participants observed that the continued ready availability of credit would support business expenditures. Others, however, noted that the pullback from risk-taking that had been observed in some financial markets over the preceding few months could intensify, raising the cost of funds.

Participants observed that many foreign central banks had tightened monetary policy over the intermeeting period in response to strengthening activity and indications of inflation pressures. Greater uncertainty about inflation pressures and the needed policy response had perhaps contributed to a reassessment of risks by investors globally. Despite the tighter policy, however, economic growth in the United States' major trading partners appeared likely to remain solid, supporting U.S. exports. Participants also discussed the role of global capacity utilization in the inflation process.

All meeting participants expressed concern about recent elevated readings on core inflation. A key issue was the extent to which this spring's increase in inflation reflected transitory or persistent influences. Many noted that a number of factors were temporarily boosting inflation. The pass-through of the substantial rise in energy prices could account for a considerable part of the step-up in core inflation in recent quarters. In addition, rising rents had been boosting the cost of shelter and so contributing to the increase in core inflation. However, energy prices were expected to level out, and rents, while difficult to forecast, were viewed by some participants as likely to decelerate in coming quarters. The moderation in the economic expansion was expected to prevent pressures on resource utilization from intensifying. In sum, with inflation expectations contained and unit labor costs held down by ongoing gains in productivity and modest advances in compensation, inflation was seen by most participants as likely to edge down.

Nevertheless, several factors were cited as potentially sustaining upward pressure on inflation, and the range of participants' forecasts for core inflation in 2007 rose by 1/4 percentage point relative to the range of forecasts made in February. Some participants noted that businesses in their Districts were experiencing difficulty hiring certain types of skilled workers, suggesting that increased wage pressures might emerge. In addition, some business contacts indicated a greater ability to pass higher costs on to customers, although other businesses continued to report that their pricing power remained limited. The relatively taut resource markets and the lagged effects of the increase in energy prices raised the possibility that inflation could continue at somewhat elevated levels for some time. Higher levels of inflation, should they persist, could become embedded in inflation expectations. In that vein, several participants noted that inflation expectations had been sensitive to incoming data and to communications regarding monetary policy over the intermeeting period.