The information reviewed at the June meeting suggested that the growth of economic activity in the second quarter slowed substantially from its rapid first-quarter pace. The expansion of consumer spending softened, and activity in the housing market continued to cool. In contrast, the underlying rate of business spending remained strong and was well supported by fundamentals. The demand for labor appeared to moderate as hiring stepped down in recent months. Consumer price inflation remained elevated in April and May, reflecting sharp rises in energy prices and more rapid increases in core prices.

Gains in nonfarm private payrolls averaged 112,000 over the three months ending in May, a pace considerably below the average of about 170,000 jobs per month for the prior three-month period. The slowing in hiring was most pronounced in retail trade but was also evident in construction and information services. Establishments in professional and business services, nonbusiness services, and wholesale trade continued to add jobs at roughly the same pace as earlier in the year. Average hours of production or nonsupervisory workers on private nonfarm payrolls edged up in April but reversed these gains in May. The unemployment rate was 4.6 percent in May, near its average for the year so far.

Industrial production edged down in May after strong growth in April, largely reflecting the patterns of manufacturing output. For the year to date, manufacturing production advanced at a rate significantly below its rapid fourth-quarter growth rate but only a bit below its average pace of expansion since mid-2003. The mining sector, which includes oil and natural gas extraction, expanded solidly in April before falling back in May. Utilities output also grew strongly in April but retreated in May as temperatures returned to normal after having been unseasonably warm in April. Capacity utilization in manufacturing remained somewhat above its long-run average in both April and May.

Real consumer spending appeared to be on track to decelerate noticeably in the current quarter after posting robust growth in the first quarter. The slowing reflected both a marked reduction in the growth in real outlays for motor vehicles from an elevated first-quarter pace and a moderation in the advance of real expenditures for other goods in recent months. Underlying this slowing in the expansion of consumer expenditures was a moderation in the fundamental determinants of spending. The level of nominal wages and salaries beginning in the fourth quarter of 2005 was revised down considerably, and rising consumer prices held down the gains in real disposable income. Higher interest rates also likely restrained spending. Nonetheless, despite recent declines in equity prices, the wealth-to-income ratio remained well above its historical average, and consumer sentiment, which dipped in May, rebounded some in early June.

Residential construction activity moderated over the past few months but remained at a historically high level. Single-family starts posted a sizable drop in May for the third consecutive month. Although a substantial portion of May's decline seemed to be a partial payback for the elevated level of starts early in the year, when weather conditions had been favorable, the underlying pace of single-family housing construction appeared to have slowed. In the multifamily sector, starts in May were well within the typical range seen since 1995. Sales of both new and existing single-family homes in April and May were significantly below their peaks of the summer of 2005, though new home sales continued to regain some ground after having fallen in February. The most reliable measures of house prices indicated modest growth following the rapid increases seen last year.

After a first-quarter surge, real spending on equipment and software appeared on track for a much smaller gain in the second quarter. Incoming data for the current quarter suggested that spending on transportation equipment reversed the run-up that occurred in the first quarter. Spending on high-tech equipment and software advanced at a slower pace in the second quarter as a flattening out of spending on communications equipment after a huge increase in the first quarter offset some pickup in business-sector demand for computers and software. The construction of nonresidential buildings picked up noticeably so far this year, although activity remained well short of its previous peak in mid-2000. Outlays on drilling and mining structures continued to climb in response to high projected energy prices.

The book value of manufacturing and trade inventories excluding motor vehicles stepped up in April. The ratio of book-value inventories to sales held steady for the year so far after having fallen considerably last year. In general, inventories appeared to be well aligned with demand, and business surveys suggested that firms were comfortable with the level of inventories.

The U.S. international trade deficit widened in April, reflecting a large increase in imports coupled with a slight decline in exports. Import growth was led by sharp rises in the value of imported oil and natural gas and increased imports of automotive products and capital goods. Exports were restrained in part by a decline in aircraft exports. Expansion of economic activity in the foreign industrial countries was solid in the first quarter, but indications for the second quarter were more mixed. Incoming data pointed to a possible slowing in Canada, but signs of further expansion in the euro area and of continued growth in Japan were evident, notwithstanding sharp declines in equity indexes in these countries.

Headline inflation picked up in April and May, driven partly by sharp increases in the prices of petroleum-based products. In contrast, natural gas prices continued to decline in response to excess supply, fully reversing last autumn's rises. Higher oil prices showed through to producer prices for a variety of energy-intensive intermediate goods. Consumer food prices decelerated markedly since January, reflecting slower price increases for food away from home and declines, on balance, in the prices of fruits and vegetables. Core price inflation rose less than headline inflation in April and May but above its pace earlier in the year. Core prices were boosted in part by an acceleration in shelter costs, especially those imputed for owner-occupied residences. Readings on the growth of labor costs were revised down for the fourth quarter of 2005 and first quarter of 2006, but recent data suggested a pickup in the second quarter. A number of indicators of inflation expectations largely reversed increases recorded in the spring.

At its May meeting, the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) decided to raise its target for the federal funds rate 25 basis points, to 5 percent. The Committee's accompanying statement indicated that economic growth had been quite strong so far this year. The Committee saw growth as likely to moderate to a more sustainable pace, partly reflecting a gradual cooling of the housing market and the lagged effects of increases in interest rates and energy prices. At that time, the run-up in the prices of energy and other commodities appeared to have had only a modest effect on core inflation. Ongoing productivity gains had helped to hold the growth of unit labor costs in check, and inflation expectations remained contained. Still, possible increases in resource utilization and the elevated prices of energy and other commodities had the potential to add to inflation pressures. In these circumstances, the Committee foresaw the possibility of a need for some further policy firming to address inflation risks but emphasized that the extent and timing of any such firming would depend importantly on the evolution of the economic outlook as implied by incoming information.