The information reviewed at this meeting suggested that underlying growth in aggregate demand remained solid, even though the expansion of real GDP was estimated to have slowed in the fourth quarter. Household spending rose smartly, outside of autos, and orders and shipments of nondefense capital goods in the business sector were generally quite strong. Housing markets showed some signs of cooling, but starts and sales remained at high levels. Industrial production posted moderate gains, even after excluding hurricane-related rebounds in some production categories, and private payrolls expanded at a firm rate on average. Headline consumer inflation had been held down by falling consumer energy prices; more recently, however, crude oil prices climbed back up to high levels. Meanwhile, core inflation had moved up a bit from low levels seen last summer.

Labor demand expanded further in the fourth quarter, as private nonfarm payrolls showed large gains in November followed by more-modest gains in December. The average increase over those two months represented sturdy job gains, even after accounting for the likely catch-up in employment following Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. Several sectors, including manufacturing and several service groups, added vigorously to payrolls in December, but the total for the month was held down by employment declines in a number of sectors, such as retail trade and construction, where seasonal adjustment can be difficult this time of year. Aggregate hours fell slightly in December owing to a decrease in the workweek, but they rose over the fourth quarter as a whole. The unemployment rate edged down to 4.9 percent in part due to the labor force participation rate ticking down.

Industrial production rose notably in November and December, boosted by partial recovery from the effects of the hurricanes. Production in the mining industry, which includes oil and gas extraction, increased sharply. Utilities output also popped up in December as temperatures turned unseasonably cold in the first half of the month. Abstracting from the effects of these special factors, underlying activity in the industrial sector advanced moderately. Modest production increases in most manufacturing categories in December, including high-tech, consumer goods, and business equipment, outweighed production declines in the motor vehicles and parts sector. The capacity utilization rate in manufacturing stood a bit above its level of one year ago and near its long-run average.

Real personal consumption expenditures appeared to have increased only modestly in the fourth quarter, as spending on motor vehicles was restrained following a surge in the summer in response to manufacturers' price incentives. Outside of motor vehicles, consumption was brisk, supported by job growth, increases in personal income, and the decline in energy prices. Consumption was also likely supported by further gains in home values and equity prices that raised the ratio of household wealth to disposable income relative to that seen earlier in 2005. Consumer sentiment measured by surveys moved up in December and, judging by the preliminary reading of the Michigan Survey, edged up further in January.

Activity in the housing market appeared to continue at high levels, although there were some indications of slowing. Single-family housing starts decreased markedly in December; however, this decline may have been due in part to unusually cold and wet weather in some areas of the country. Multifamily housing starts increased in December. Sales of new and existing homes remained at elevated levels but slowed somewhat toward the end of the year. Moreover, the stock of homes for sale increased to the upper end of ranges seen in recent years. Recent data on mortgage applications and survey measures of homebuying attitudes also pointed to some cooling in the housing market.

Real outlays for equipment and software appeared to have slowed significantly in the fourth quarter, as expenditures for transportation and communications equipment reversed some of their earlier sharp increases. With few exceptions, however, new orders appeared to be quite strong, and order backlogs increased for several goods in the transportation sector. Underlying fundamentals continued to support gains in capital spending as business sector output expanded, firms remained flush with funds, and relative price declines pushed down the user cost of capital equipment. Anecdotal reports and surveys also indicated that businesses were optimistic about near-term capital spending plans. Vacancy rates for nonresidential properties drifted lower as construction expenditures on commercial and manufacturing structures remained well below recent peaks. However, spending on drilling and mining structures continued to increase strongly. Business investment in real nonfarm inventories increased moderately in the fourth quarter, boosted by a rapid accumulation of motor vehicle inventories. Outside of motor vehicles, stocks continued to rise slowly. The restrained growth in inventories in recent months suggested that firms outside the motor vehicle sector were intentionally keeping stockbuilding low; however, it could also have reflected an unanticipated increase in sales or supply interruptions following the hurricanes last fall. That said, the level of stocks appeared reasonably well aligned with demand in most industries.

After increasing further in October, the U.S. international trade deficit narrowed somewhat in November. The reduction in the deficit reflected a modest increase in exports and a similar-sized decrease in imports that owed importantly to a decline in imports of oil. The firm pace of third-quarter GDP growth in foreign economies generally appeared to continue in the fourth quarter.

Core consumer price inflation remained moderate over the second half of last year. Core prices had posted a string of very low increases last summer, held down in part by falling motor vehicle prices. In recent months, increases in core prices had rebounded. The overall consumer price index edged down further in December in response to substantial declines in its volatile energy price components. However, survey data pointed to large increases in gasoline prices in January, which were due to the backup in crude oil prices. Preliminary survey measures of near-term inflation expectations for January had nonetheless ticked down, continuing the reversal of a sharp increase after the hurricanes last fall, and longer-term inflation expectations had moved lower as well. Input prices increased somewhat less in December, as upward pressure from previous energy price increases receded somewhat. Indeed, the increase in core intermediate producer prices over the year was estimated to be considerably lower than over the previous year. At its December meeting, the Federal Open Market Committee decided to increase the target level of the federal funds rate 25 basis points, to 4¼ percent. In its accompanying statement, the Committee indicated that, despite elevated energy prices and hurricane-related disruptions, the expansion in economic activity appeared solid. Core inflation had stayed relatively low in recent months, and longer-term inflation expectations had remained contained. Nevertheless, the Committee noted that possible increases in resource utilization as well as elevated energy prices had the potential to add to inflationary pressures. In these circumstances, the Committee believed that some further measured policy firming was likely to be needed to keep the risks to the attainment of both sustainable economic growth and price stability roughly in balance.