In their discussion of the economic situation and outlook, meeting participants noted the slowing in GDP growth in the fourth quarter of 2005, but believed that it probably owed in large part to transitory factors and that economic growth would bounce back in the current quarter. In that regard, several high frequency indicators of production, labor markets, and private demand suggested greater underlying strength of late than had been reflected in the most recent GDP data. Over the next couple of years, the economy seemed poised to expand at a moderate rate in the neighborhood of its sustainable pace. Most participants expected core inflation to move up slightly in the near term, reflecting some pass-through of increased energy and other commodity prices. Although heightened inflation pressures could also arise from possible increases in resource utilization, the outlook for economic growth and the stability of inflation expectations suggested that core inflation should remain contained over time.

In preparation for the Federal Reserve's semiannual report to the Congress on the economy and monetary policy, the members of the Board of Governors and the presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks submitted individual projections of the growth of GDP, the rate of unemployment, and core consumer price inflation for the years 2006 and 2007. The forecasts of the rate of expansion in real GDP for 2006 were in a range of 3-1/4 to 4 percent, centered at 3-1/2 percent, while those for 2007 were in a range of 3 to 4 percent, with a central tendency of 3 to 3-1/2 percent. These rates of growth were associated with projections of the civilian unemployment rate in a range of 4-1/2 to 5 percent, with a central tendency of 4-3/4 to 5 percent, in both the fourth quarter of 2006 and the fourth quarter of 2007. Expectations for the rate of inflation, as measured by the core PCE price index, were in a range of 1-3/4 to 2-1/2 percent this year, centered at about 2 percent, and in a range of 1-3/4 to 2 percent in 2007.

In their discussion of major sectors of the economy, meeting participants noted that consumer spending in the latter months of 2005 had been buffeted by the effects of hurricanes, increased energy prices, and reduced auto sales incentives. However, anecdotal reports contributed to a view that consumer spending had been solid over the holiday season and in recent weeks, while measures of consumer confidence remained high. Nevertheless, signs of slowing in the housing sector had become more evident, and the boost to construction from hurricane-related rebuilding now seemed likely to be spread over the next couple of years rather than being more concentrated in the near term. In some areas, home price appreciation reportedly had slowed noticeably, highlighting the risks to aggregate demand of a pullback in the housing sector. For instance, the effects of a leveling out of housing wealth on the saving rate were difficult to predict, but, in the view of some, potentially sizable. Rising debt service costs, owing in part to the repricing of variable-rate mortgages, were also mentioned as possibly restraining the discretionary spending of consumers. The most likely outlook, however, was for a gradual moderation in house price appreciation and in the growth of consumption, which would continue to be supported by increases in jobs and incomes.

Participants generally anticipated fairly strong growth of capital expenditures. Though firms had been cautious about expanding their plant and equipment, business confidence was high, capacity utilization was tightening, and companies were continuing to look for investment opportunities that increased productivity. As a result, the outlook was for reasonably robust spending on capital equipment even if economic growth slowed a bit. Anecdotal reports suggested that nonresidential real estate markets were improving in some areas.

The slowdown in government spending in the fourth quarter was generally seen as reflecting shifts in the timing of outlays, rather than a change in the underlying trend. However, fiscal stimulus was expected to diminish somewhat by next year. By contrast, global demand had picked up of late and would provide ongoing support for U.S. exports; indeed, the sharp increases in commodity prices and rallies in world equity markets suggested the possibility of an even stronger path for demand abroad.

Financial market conditions in the United States, as well as those abroad, suggested that investors were optimistic about the economic outlook. The recent strength in equity markets and the low prevailing term premiums and bond spreads perhaps reflected market assessments that economic risks were lower than usual, as well as strong demands for longer-term assets and an ample supply of liquidity. The possibility that term premiums and credit spreads could return to more typical settings represented a downside risk for interest-sensitive components of aggregate demand.

A variety of indicators, along with anecdotal reports, suggested that employment was expanding at a fairly good pace and labor compensation was rising moderately. Some participants remarked on the uncertainties regarding the extent of remaining capacity in labor markets and the outlook for labor costs. In particular, developments affecting the participation rate in the labor force and the pace of growth in productivity would importantly condition prospects for employment and business cost pressures.

Participants noted that, while the pass-through of higher energy and other commodity prices to prices of core goods and services had remained subdued, there were continuing upside risks to inflation from these sources. Whatever the size of such pass-through effects, however, it was thought that they would probably be temporary in nature and likely diminish as energy prices flattened out, as long as inflation expectations did not move higher. In that regard, participants were encouraged that, despite recent energy price increases, survey measures of inflation expectations had notched down and longer-term inflation compensation in financial markets was little changed. Although high profit margins could imply some existing pricing power, they might also provide a cushion to absorb some future cost increases. Indeed, anecdotal reports suggested that the ability of firms to pass through higher input costs generally remained limited. Nevertheless, the increased prices of energy and other commodities and the possibility of a further rise in resource utilization, which some members viewed as nearly full at present, represented continuing risks, potentially adding to inflation pressures.