Committee participants began their discussions related to the ongoing review of the Federal Reserve's monetary policy strategy, tools, and communication practices. Staff briefings provided a retrospective on the Federal Reserve's monetary policy actions since the financial crisis, together with background and analysis regarding some key issues. In its policy response during the recession and the subsequent economic recovery, the Committee lowered the federal funds rate to its effective lower bound (ELB) and provided additional monetary policy accommodation through both forward guidance about the expected path of the policy rate and balance sheet policy. These actions eased financial conditions and provided substantial support to economic activity; they therefore figured importantly in helping promote the recovery in the labor market and in preventing inflation from falling substantially below the Committee's objective. The presentation noted, however, that over the past several years, inflation had tended to run modestly below the Committee's longer-run goal of 2 percent, while some indicators of longer-run inflation expectations currently stood at low levels. The staff also provided results from model simulations that illustrated possible challenges to the achievement of the Committee's dual-mandate goals over the medium term. These challenges included the proximity of the policy rate to the ELB, imprecise knowledge about the neutral value of the policy rate and the longer-run normal level of the unemployment rate, the diminished response of inflation to resource utilization, and uncertainty about the relationship between inflation expectations and inflation outcomes.

In their discussion, participants welcomed the review of the monetary policy framework. They noted that the inclusion of feedback from the public as part of the review, via the Fed Listens events, had improved the transparency of the review process, enhanced the Federal Reserve's public accountability, and provided insights into the positive implications of strong labor markets and high rates of employment for various communities. Furthermore, participants agreed that the review was timely and warranted, in light of the use over the past decade of new policy tools and the emergence of changes in the structure and operation of the U.S. economy. These changes included the long period during which the federal funds rate was at the ELB, the probable recurrence of ELB episodes if the neutral level of the policy rate remains at historically low levels, and the challenges that policymakers face in influencing inflation and inflation expectations when the response of inflation to resource utilization has diminished. Participants generally agreed that the Committee's consideration of possible modifications to its policy strategy, tools, and communication practices would take some time and that the process would be careful, deliberate, and patient.

With regard to the current monetary policy framework, participants agreed that this framework had served the Committee and the U.S. economy well over the past decade. They judged that forward guidance and balance sheet actions had provided policy accommodation during the ELB period and had supported economic activity and a return to strong labor market conditions while also bringing inflation closer to the Committee's longer-run goal of 2 percent than would otherwise have been the case. In addition, participants noted that the Committee's balanced approach to promoting its dual mandate of maximum employment and price stability had facilitated Committee policy actions aimed at supporting the labor market and economic activity even during times when the provision of accommodation was potentially associated with the risk of inflation running persistently above 2 percent. Participants further observed that such inflation risks—along with several of the other perceived risks of providing substantial accommodation through nontraditional policy tools, including possible adverse implications for financial stability—had not been realized. In particular, a number of participants commented that, as many of the potential costs of the Committee's asset purchases had failed to materialize, the Federal Reserve might have been able to make use of balance sheet tools even more aggressively over the past decade in providing appropriate levels of accommodation. However, several participants remarked that considerable uncertainties remained about the costs and efficacy of asset purchases, and a couple of participants suggested that, taking account of the uncertainties and the perceived constraints facing policymakers in the years following the recession, the Committee's decisions on the amount of policy accommodation to provide through asset purchases had been appropriate.

In their discussion of policy tools, participants noted that the experience acquired by the Committee with the use of forward guidance and asset purchases has led to an improved understanding of how these tools operate; as a result, the Committee could proceed more confidently and preemptively in using these tools in the future if economic circumstances warranted. Participants discussed the extent to which forward guidance and balance sheet actions could substitute for reductions in the policy rate when the policy rate is constrained by the ELB. Overall, participants judged that the Federal Reserve's ability to provide monetary policy accommodation at the ELB through the use of forward guidance and balance sheet tools, while helpful in mitigating the effects of the constraint on monetary policy arising from the lower bound, did not eliminate the risk of protracted periods in which the ELB hinders the conduct of policy. If policymakers are not able to provide sufficient accommodation at the ELB through the use of forward guidance or balance sheet actions, the constraints posed by the ELB could be an impediment to the attainment of the Federal Reserve's dual-mandate objectives over time and put at risk the anchoring of inflation expectations at the Committee's longer-run inflation objective.

Participants looked forward to a detailed discussion over coming meetings of alternative strategies for monetary policy. Some participants offered remarks on general features of some of the monetary policy strategies that they would be discussing and on the relationship between those strategies and the current framework. A few of the options mentioned were "makeup strategies," in which the realization of inflation below the 2 percent objective would give rise to policy actions designed to deliver inflation above the objective for a time. In principle, such makeup strategies could be designed to promote a 2 percent inflation rate, on average, over some period. In such circumstances, market expectations that the central bank would seek to "make up" inflation shortfalls following periods during which the ELB was binding could help ease overall financial conditions and thus help support economic activity during ELB episodes. However, many participants noted that the benefits of makeup strategies in supporting economic activity and stabilizing inflation depended heavily on the private sector's understanding of those strategies and confidence that future policymakers would take actions consistent with those strategies. A few participants suggested that an alternative means of delivering average inflation equal to the Committee's longer-run objective might involve aiming for inflation somewhat in excess of 2 percent when the policy rate was away from the ELB, recognizing that inflation would tend to move lower when the policy rate was constrained by the ELB. Another possibility might be for the Committee to express the inflation goal as a range centered on 2 percent and aim to achieve inflation outcomes in the upper end of the range in periods when resource utilization was high. A couple of participants noted that an adoption of a target range would be consistent with the practice of some other central banks. A few other participants suggested that the adoption of a range could convey a message that small deviations of inflation from 2 percent were unlikely to give rise to sizable policy responses. A couple of participants expressed concern that if policymakers regularly failed to respond appropriately to persistent, relatively small shortfalls of inflation below the 2 percent longer-run objective, inflation expectations and average observed inflation could drift below that objective.

Participants also discussed the Committee's Statement on Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy. Participants noted that this statement had been helpful in articulating and clarifying the Federal Reserve's approach to monetary policy. The Committee first released this document in January 2012 and had renewed it, with a few modifications, every year since then. On the basis of the monetary policy and economic experience of the past decade, participants cited a number of topics that they would likely discuss in detail in their deliberations during the review and that might motivate possible modifications to the statement. These topics included the conduct of monetary policy in the presence of the ELB constraint, the role of inflation expectations in monetary policy, the best means of conveying the Committee's balanced approach to monetary policy and the symmetry of its inflation goal, the relationship between the Committee's strategy and its decisions about the settings of its policy tools, the implications of the low value of the neutral policy rate and of uncertainty about the values of the neutral policy rate and the longer-run normal rate of unemployment, the potential benefits and costs of unemployment running below its longer-run normal rate in conditions of muted inflation pressures, and the time frame over which policymakers aimed to achieve their dual-mandate goals. A couple of participants emphasized the availability to policymakers of other communication tools through which the Committee could elaborate on its policy strategy and the challenges that monetary policy faced in the current environment, while also indicating that the Committee retains flexibility and optionality to achieve its objectives. Participants highlighted the importance of the Summary of Economic Projections (SEP) in conveying participants' modal outlooks, with several participants suggesting that modifications to the SEP's format might enhance policy communications. Participants also commented on the importance of considering the connections between monetary policy and financial stability.

Participants expected that, at upcoming meetings, they would continue their deliberations on the review of the Federal Reserve's monetary policy strategy, tools, and communication practices. These additional discussions would consider various topics, such as alternative policy strategies, options for enhanced use of existing monetary policy tools, possible additions to the policy toolkit, potential changes to communication practices, the relationship between monetary policy and financial stability, and the distributional effects of monetary policy.