The manager pro tem described the Desk's plans for reinvestments in light of the Committee's decision to conclude the reduction of aggregate securities holdings in the SOMA portfolio effective August 1. In accordance with the directive to the Desk, beginning on August 1, all principal payments from Treasury securities, agency debt, and agency MBS will be reinvested. Principal payments from Treasury securities held in the SOMA portfolio will be reinvested through rollovers in Treasury auctions. The Desk also will reinvest principal payments from agency debt and agency MBS securities of up to $20 billion per month in Treasury securities in a manner that roughly matches the maturity composition of Treasury securities outstanding. The Desk plans to purchase these Treasury securities in the secondary market across 11 sectors of different maturities and security types approximately in proportion to the 12-month average of the amount outstanding in each sector relative to the total amount outstanding across sectors, as measured at the end of July. The Desk will continue to reinvest agency debt and agency MBS principal payments in excess of $20 billion per month in agency MBS. Given the Committee's decision to bring forward the timing of these purchases to August, the Desk planned to release an operational statement to provide more details on the plans for reinvestment operations.

It was agreed that the next meeting of the Committee would be held on Tuesday–Wednesday, September 17–18, 2019. The meeting adjourned at 11:15 a.m. on July 31, 2019.

Notation Vote By notation vote completed on July 9, 2019, the Committee unanimously approved the minutes of the Committee meeting held on June 18–19, 2019.

_______________________ James A. Clouse Secretary

1. The Federal Open Market Committee is referenced as the "FOMC" and the "Committee" in these minutes. Return to text

2. Attended through the discussion of economic developments and outlook. Return to text

3. Attended the discussion of the review of monetary policy framework. Return to text

4. Attended through the discussion of developments in financial markets and open market operations. Return to text

5. Attended the discussion of economic developments and outlook through discussion of monetary policy. Return to text

6. Attended Tuesday session only. Return to text

7. In taking this action, the Board approved requests to establish that rate submitted by the boards of directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Philadelphia, Chicago, St. Louis, Dallas, and San Francisco. This vote also encompassed approval by the Board of Governors of the establishment of a 2.75 percent primary credit rate by the remaining Federal Reserve Banks, effective on the later of August 1, 2019, and the date such Reserve Banks informed the Secretary of the Board of such a request. (Secretary's note: Subsequently, the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, New York, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Minneapolis, and Kansas City were informed of the Secretary of the Board's approval of their establishment of a primary credit rate of 2.75 percent, effective August 1, 2019.) A second vote of the Board encompassed approval of the establishment of the interest rates for secondary and seasonal credit under the existing formulas for computing such rates. Return to text