The information available for the July 30–31 meeting indicated that labor market conditions remained strong and that real gross domestic product (GDP) increased at a moderate rate in the second quarter. Consumer price inflation, as measured by the 12-month percentage change in the price index for personal consumption expenditures (PCE), was below 2 percent in June. Survey-based measures of longer-run inflation expectations were little changed.

Total nonfarm payroll employment expanded at a solid rate, on average, in recent months, supported by a brisk gain in June. The unemployment rate edged up to 3.7 percent in June but was still at a historically low level. The labor force participation rate also moved up somewhat but was close to its average over the previous few years, and the employment-to-population ratio stayed flat. The unemployment rates for African Americans and Asians declined in June, the rate for whites was unchanged, and the rate for Hispanics edged up; the unemployment rate for each group was below its level at the end of the previous economic expansion, though persistent differentials between these rates remained. The share of workers employed part time for economic reasons in June continued to be below the lows reached in late 2007. The rate of private-sector job openings held steady in May, while the rate of quits edged down but was still at a high level; the four-week moving average of initial claims for unemployment insurance benefits through mid-July was near historically low levels. Average hourly earnings for all employees rose 3.1 percent over the 12 months ending in June, somewhat faster than a year earlier. The employment cost index for private-sector workers increased 2.6 percent over the 12 months ending in June, the same as a year earlier. (Data on compensation per hour that reflected the recent annual update of the national income and product accounts by the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) were not available at the time of the meeting.)

Total consumer prices, as measured by the PCE price index, increased 1.4 percent over the 12 months ending in June. This increase was slower than a year earlier, as core PCE price inflation (which excludes changes in consumer food and energy prices) moved down to 1.6 percent, consumer food price inflation remained below core inflation, and consumer energy prices declined. The average monthly change in the core PCE price index during the second quarter was faster than in the first quarter, suggesting that some of the soft inflation readings early in the year were transitory. The trimmed mean measure of 12-month PCE price inflation constructed by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas remained at or near 2 percent in recent months. The consumer price index (CPI) rose 1.6 percent over the 12 months ending in June, while core CPI inflation was 2.1 percent. Recent survey-based measures of longer-run inflation expectations were little changed on balance. The preliminary July reading from the University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers moved back up after dipping in June but was still at a relatively low level; the measures from the Desk's Survey of Primary Dealers and Survey of Market Participants were little changed.

Real consumer expenditures rose briskly in the second quarter after a sluggish gain in the first quarter, supported in part by a robust pace of light motor vehicle sales in May and June. However, real PCE rose more slowly in June than in the first five months of the year, suggesting some deceleration in consumer spending going into the third quarter. Key factors that influence consumer spending—including a low unemployment rate, further gains in real disposable income, and elevated measures of households' net worth—were supportive of solid real PCE growth in the near term. In addition, the preliminary July reading on the Michigan survey measure of consumer sentiment remained at an upbeat level.

Real residential investment declined again in the second quarter. Al­though starts of new single-family homes rose in June, the average in the second quarter was lower than in the first quarter; starts of multifamily units fell back in June but rose for the second quarter as a whole. Building permit issuance for new single-family homes—which tends to be a good indicator of the underlying trend in construction of such homes—was at roughly the same level in June as its first-quarter average. On net in May and June, sales of new homes declined, while sales of existing homes rose.

Real nonresidential private fixed investment edged down in the second quarter, as a decline in expenditures on nonresidential structures more than offset an increase in expenditures for business equipment and intellectual property. Forward-looking indicators of fixed investment were mixed. Orders for nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft increased in June, and some measures of business sentiment improved. However, analysts' expectations of firms' longer-term profit growth remained soft, trade policy concerns appeared to be weighing on investment, and the number of crude oil and natural gas rigs in operation—an indicator of business spending for structures in the drilling and mining sector—continued to decrease in recent weeks.

Industrial production (IP) was unchanged in June, as a decrease in the output of utilities offset increases in the output of manufacturers and mines. For the second quarter as a whole, both total IP and manufacturing output declined, while mining output rose notably, supported by a strong gain in crude oil extraction. Automakers' assembly schedules suggested that production of light motor vehicles would move up somewhat in the third quarter. However, new orders indexes from national and regional manufacturing surveys pointed toward continued softness in manufacturing production in coming months.

Total real government purchases rose solidly in the second quarter. Federal defense spending increased, and nondefense purchases returned to more typical levels after the partial federal government shutdown in the first quarter. Real purchases by state and local governments rose moderately, boosted by a strong gain in spending on structures and an increase in the payrolls of those governments.

The nominal U.S. international trade deficit widened in May relative to April, as imports increased more than exports. In June, preliminary data indicated declining nominal goods exports and imports. Within exports, declines were particularly notable for exports of consumer goods and capital goods, the latter of which had already been depressed by the suspension of Boeing 737 MAX exports. All told, the BEA estimates that net exports, after adding moderately to first-quarter GDP growth, subtracted a similar amount from GDP growth in the second quarter on declining exports and flat imports.

Incoming data suggested that growth in the foreign economies remained subdued in the second quarter. In several key advanced foreign economies, including the euro area, recent indicators pointed to slowing economic growth amid continued weakness in manufacturing and persistent policy-related uncertainty. Similarly, in China, real GDP growth slowed notably in the second quarter after a first-quarter jump. In contrast, growth in Canada and, to a lesser extent, Latin America appeared to pick up from a weak first-quarter pace. Foreign inflation remained muted but rose a bit from lows earlier in the year, largely reflecting higher energy prices.