The manager pro tem discussed developments in financial markets over the intermeeting period. Regarding market participants' views about the July FOMC meeting, nearly all respondents from the July Open Market Desk surveys of dealers and market participants expected a 25 basis point cut in the target range for the federal funds rate, a substantial shift from the June surveys when a significant majority had a modal forecast for no change. Survey responses also suggested that expectations had coalesced around a modal forecast for a total of two 25 basis point cuts in the target range in 2019 and no change thereafter through year-end 2021. Regarding balance sheet policy, survey respondents that expected a rate cut at this meeting were almost evenly split on whether the Committee would also choose to end balance runoff immediately after the meeting or to maintain the existing plan to halt runoff at the end of September. Market participants generally judged that a two-month change in the timing of the end of the balance sheet runoff would have only a small effect on the path of the balance sheet and thus very little, if any, economic effect.

Expectations for near-term domestic policy easing had occurred against the backdrop of a global shift toward more accommodative monetary policy. Several central banks had eased policy over the past month and a number of others shifted to an easing bias. Market participants were particularly attentive to a statement after the European Central Bank's Governing Council meeting that was perceived as affirming expectations for further easing and additional asset purchases. These changes to the policy outlook in the United States and across a number of countries appeared to play an important role in supporting financial conditions and offsetting some of the drag on growth from trade tensions and other risks.

Somewhat reduced concern among market participants about important risks to the global outlook also appeared to support risk asset prices. Following the G-20 (Group of Twenty) meeting in late June, fewer Desk contacts and respondents to the Desk surveys expected a significant escalation of U.S.-China trade tensions. In addition, investor sentiment was bolstered by news that the Administration and Congress had reached a budget and debt ceiling agreement that, if passed, would remove another source of risk later this year. That said, contacts recognized that some potentially sizeable downside risks remained. Many survey respondents still viewed U.S.-China trade risks as skewed to the downside, and many Desk contacts judged that the risks of a "no-deal" Brexit had increased.

The manager pro tem next discussed developments in money markets and open market operations. The spreads of the effective federal funds rate (EFFR) and the median Eurodollar rate relative to the interest on excess reserves (IOER) rate had increased some and become more variable over recent months, with a notable pickup in daily changes in these spreads since late March. Moreover, the range of rates in unsecured markets each day had widened. Market participants pointed to pressures in repurchase agreement (repo) markets as one factor contributing to the uptick in volatility in unsecured rates. These pressures, in turn, seemed to stem partly from elevated dealer inventories of Treasury securities and dealers' associated financing needs. Market participants also pointed to lower reserve balances as a factor affecting rates in unsecured money market rates. Over the intermeeting period, the level of reserves was little changed on net; however, some market participants noted the association between the gradual increase in unsecured rates relative to the IOER rate over recent months and the declining level of reserves since System Open Market Account (SOMA) redemptions began. The level of reserves was expected to decline appreciably over coming months, partly reflecting an anticipated sizable increase in the Treasury's balance at the Federal Reserve following the agreement on the federal budget and debt ceiling.

The manager pro tem updated the Committee on Desk plans to resume CUSIP (Committee on Uniform Securities Identification Procedures) aggregation of SOMA holdings of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac agency mortgage-backed securities (MBS) to reduce administrative costs and operational complexity, and the Desk expects to release a statement in August with details on the aggregation strategy.

By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Desk's domestic transactions over the intermeeting period. There were no intervention operations in foreign currencies for the System's account during the intermeeting period.