At the conclusion of the discussion, the Committee voted to authorize and direct the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, until it was instructed otherwise, to execute transactions in the System Account in accordance with the following domestic policy directive.

“The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions that will foster price stability and promote sustainable growth in output. To further its long-run objectives, the Committee in the immediate future seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with increasing the federal funds rate to an average of around 2¼ percent.”

The vote encompassed approval of the paragraph below for inclusion in the statement to be released shortly after the meeting:

“The Committee perceives the upside and downside risks to the attainment of both sustainable growth and price stability for the next few quarters to be roughly equal. With underlying inflation expected to be relatively low, the Committee believes that policy accommodation can be removed at a pace that is likely to be measured. Nonetheless, the Committee will respond to changes in economic prospects as needed to fulfill its obligation to maintain price stability.”

The meeting then turned to consideration of releasing FOMC minutes on an accelerated schedule. Meeting participants agreed that an experiment with accelerating the preparation of the minutes that had been conducted since early in the year had been successful in identifying the procedural changes that would be necessary if an accelerated schedule were to be followed going forward. Participants noted that the minutes contained a more complete and nuanced explanation of the reasons for the Committee’s decisions and view of the risks to the outlook than was possible in the post-meeting announcement, and their earlier release would help markets interpret economic developments and predict the course of interest rates. They also would provide the public a more up-to-date context for individual policymakers’ public remarks. Meeting participants supported the principle of openness and transparency, but debated the possibility that the markets would misinterpret the minutes and that the prospect of early release would lead to either less productive discussions at the meetings or to less comprehensive, and therefore less useful, minutes. A few participants expressed support for trimming the length and forward-looking elements of the post-meeting announcements, should the Committee decide to accelerate release of the minutes. Others, however, preferred not to link the two decisions or viewed the more extensive announcements as useful regardless of the minutes’ publication schedule.

The clear consensus of the participants at the meeting was to release the minutes on an expedited schedule, and the Committee voted unanimously to begin publishing the minutes of regularly scheduled meetings three weeks after the day of the policy decision. The minutes of any other Committee meetings, such as conference calls, would be handled somewhat differently. In those cases, if a policy action were taken, an announcement of that action would be made as soon as practicably possible. If, however, no action were taken, the fact that the conference call took place would be reflected in the statement following the subsequent regular meeting, and, in any case, the minutes of the call would be released along with the minutes of the subsequent regular meeting.