The information received at this meeting suggested that the economy expanded at a moderate pace over the third quarter and into the current quarter. Consumer spending was solid, and investment spending remained strong. Manufacturing production increased at a modest pace, and employment gains in October and November indicated that the labor market continued to improve gradually. Core inflation measures remained subdued, albeit running at a slightly higher pace than last year, owing, in part, to the indirect effects of higher energy prices.

Gains in employment were moderate in November after a surge in October. Job growth was fairly widespread, with the exception of slightly weak seasonal hiring in the retail sector. Construction employment grew rapidly in November even after the outsized gains in October due to hurricane-related repair work. In contrast, employment in manufacturing edged lower. The average workweek in November was a touch below its level in October, but still a bit above the third-quarter average. The unemployment rate ticked down to 5.4 percent in November.

Industrial production expanded a little more slowly in November than it had in recent months. Output at mines increased noticeably for a second month, and manufacturing output posted a moderate gain. At utilities, output fell back in November after large increases in the preceding two months. Utilization rates moved higher in November.

Consumer spending appeared to be expanding at a more moderate pace in the fourth quarter, after growing at a robust rate in the third quarter. Although sales of motor vehicles declined in November, spending on other goods rose further after the large increase posted in October. Spending on services continued to register solid gains. Real disposable income, restrained by sharply higher energy prices, rose slightly. Even so, measures of consumer confidence were little changed and remained consistent with sustained increases in spending.

Activity in housing markets, buoyed by mortgage rates only modestly above their recent lows, remained strong in October. Starts of both single-family and multifamily homes increased and were above their third-quarter levels. Home sales remained at near-record levels.

Shipments of nondefense capital goods stepped up in October against the backdrop of solid expansion in business output, low user cost of capital, and an ample stock of liquid assets in the corporate sector. Shipments of computers jumped in October, while gains in the transportation sector were more modest. Outside the high-tech and transportation sectors, shipments moved up considerably in October from their robust third-quarter pace. Outlays on nonresidential construction edged down in October.

After a rapid rise in the third quarter, nonfarm inventories appeared to accumulate at a moderate pace in October. The book value of manufacturers’ inventories increased notably; however, shipments also stepped up, an increase that left the inventory-shipments ratio in this sector unchanged.

The U.S. international trade deficit widened in October, primarily because of a surge in merchandise imports. Economic activity in most of the major foreign industrial countries slowed in the third quarter, and data for the fourth quarter pointed to continued subpar growth.

Consumer prices jumped in October, as hurricane damage contributed to higher prices for food and energy. For the twelve months ending in October, consumer prices rose considerably faster than they did in the year-earlier period. Core consumer prices increased much more modestly in October than did overall consumer prices, although the twelve-month change for core prices was also somewhat higher than it was a year before. The employment cost index for private compensation advanced moderately in the year ending the third quarter, and the markup of prices over labor costs remained somewhat elevated.