In their discussion of the economic outlook, the participants at the meeting (the members of the Board of Governors and the Reserve Bank Presidents or those acting in their place) generally regarded incoming data since the prior meeting as consistent with an expectation that the economy would continue to expand at a pace that would likely prove sufficient to reduce margins of underutilized resources further. Recent data and anecdotal information indicated that the economic expansion was firmly established and had proven quite resilient in the face of rising oil prices and the reduction in policy accommodation. Although the November employment report had been disappointing, when viewed over several months, labor market conditions were generally seen as gradually improving. That improvement was expected to persist and, along with higher wealth and relatively low interest rates, would support further gains in spending by households. Rising demand, elevated underlying productivity growth, and accommodative financial conditions should keep business spending on a strong uptrend. With some economic slack persisting and longer-term inflation expectations well-anchored, inflation was anticipated to remain subdued. A number of participants cited the recent depreciation of the dollar on foreign exchange markets, elevated energy costs, and the possibility of a slowing in underlying productivity growth as factors tending to boost the upside risks to their inflation outlook, though, on net, they saw the risks to stable underlying inflation as still balanced.

In their discussion of important sectors of the economy, participants noted that increasing equity and home prices had boosted household net worth, leaving consumers well positioned to maintain a brisk pace of spending. Continued gains in employment were thought likely to provide additional support to spending by bolstering consumer confidence and income. Participants commented that real disposable incomes should receive a further lift from the recent drop in oil prices. Moreover, intermediate- and long-term interest rates remained low in both nominal and real terms despite the recent firming in the stance of policy, encouraging spending on consumer durables and housing.

Many of the fundamentals underlying the demand for capital goods—expanding output, a low cost of capital, strong profits, and ample liquid assets—appeared quite favorable, and participants generally were upbeat in their assessment of the prospects for investment. While some participants noted that their business contacts seemed more confident about the future and that the sense of caution previously evident in business spending and hiring behavior seemed to be waning, others believed that many businesses remained quite wary. Most participants acknowledged some significant uncertainties in their outlook, including the effects of the expiration of the partial-expensing provision for investment at the end of 2004 and recent indications of a softening in high-tech spending in the United States and elsewhere. The possible downshift in the pace of high-tech spending also raised the possibility of an erosion of profit margins that could result from a slackening in the pace of technology-led productivity growth and the associated increase in cost pressures.

A number of participants voiced concerns about domestic and global financial imbalances. On the domestic front, such concerns focused on the magnitude of current and projected fiscal deficits, which seemed likely to keep national saving low. Views about the prospects for fiscal restraint in the years ahead were mixed; some participants believed that the odds of significant deficit reduction over the next few years were remote while others were more optimistic. Regarding global imbalances and the current account deficit in the United States, a number of participants expressed doubts that such imbalances would be reduced in the near-term. Better global balance would require not only greater national saving in the United States but also a notable strengthening in domestic demand among major trading partners. Such a strengthening seemed unlikely in the near term given the recent softening in the economies of several important industrial countries.

In their discussion of financial market conditions, participants noted that investors anticipated further increases in the federal funds rate over the coming year, but intermediate- and long-term interest rates along with financial conditions more generally had remained quite supportive of growth. A few participants commented that the generally low level of interest rates across a wide range of maturities and the recent flattening of the slope of the yield curve (measured as the spread between ten- and two-year Treasury yields) might signal that expectations of longer-term growth had been marked down. Some participants believed that the prolonged period of policy accommodation had generated a significant degree of liquidity that might be contributing to signs of potentially excessive risk-taking in financial markets evidenced by quite narrow credit spreads, a pickup in initial public offerings, an upturn in mergers and acquisition activity, and anecdotal reports that speculative demands were becoming apparent in the markets for single-family homes and condominiums.

Although the November employment report had been disappointing and recent readings on initial claims for unemployment insurance had risen, participants viewed labor market conditions still as improving gradually. Averaging over recent months, or even the entire year, employment growth had been fast enough to absorb unutilized labor resources over time. Anecdotal information suggested a significant tightening in the market for skilled workers in some industries and regions, although demand for less skilled workers still appeared soft. Recent surveys of hiring plans by businesses were read as signaling future gains in employment. Despite the further improvement in labor markets, a number of participants noted that wage and compensation increases had not picked up materially and generally remained moderate.

In their discussion of the outlook for prices, a number of participants cited developments that could pose upside inflation risks. Although oil prices had fallen of late, they were still considerably higher than they had been in the spring, and the recent decline in the dollar would raise import prices and diminish competitive pressures on many industries. The pass-through from both sources should be limited, but they were still a potential source of upward pressure on prices that could get embedded in higher inflation under certain circumstances. In addition, productivity growth had slowed appreciably in the most recent quarter and unit labor costs had increased, raising questions about cost pressures going forward. A few participants also noted that uncertainty about the extent of resource slack in the economy was considerable and that it was quite possible that the economy could soon be operating close to potential, particularly if labor force participation rates did not turn up much while employment continued to register gains. The increase over the last few months in five-year measures of inflation compensation derived from Treasury nominal and inflation-indexed securities might be a warning sign that expectations were not as well anchored as they had been over the summer.

Despite these concerns, participants generally expected that inflation would remain low in the foreseeable future. While the depreciation of the dollar over recent months had been notable, some participants found persuasive the evidence from recent studies pointing to a decline over time and across countries in the pass-through of exchange rate movements into domestic prices. Forward market-based measures of inflation compensation beyond the next five years as well as survey measures of both short- and long-term inflation expectations had been quite stable of late, despite the previous rise in energy prices and the lower dollar. Moreover, several participants cited factors that likely would continue to provide a counterweight to any upside risks. Although participants generally acknowledged that the degree of economic slack was quite uncertain, the moderate pace of wage and compensation growth in recent months in the face of higher energy prices and several years of rapid productivity growth was consistent with an economy still operating somewhat below its potential. In a similar vein, the recent quarterly dip in productivity growth notwithstanding, there were no clear signs that underlying productivity had slowed appreciably of late, and a close reading of recent history suggested that upside risks to the outlook for productivity growth could be significant. Even if structural productivity growth were to slow, price markups remained quite elevated and some participants noted that further increases in unit labor costs could well be absorbed for some time by a return of markups to more normal levels.

In the Committee's discussion of policy for the intermeeting period, all of the members (the members of the Board of Governors and the five voting Reserve Bank Presidents) favored raising the target for the federal funds rate by 25 basis points to 2¼ percent at this meeting. All members judged that a further quarter-point tightening in the target federal funds rate at this meeting was appropriate in light of the prospects for solid growth and diminished slack. Even with this action, the current level of the real funds rate target remained below the level it most likely would need to reach to keep inflation stable and output at its potential. With the economic expansion more firmly entrenched, cost and price pressures were likely to become a clearer intermediate-term risk to sustained good economic performance absent further reduction of accommodation.

With regard to the Committee's announcement to be released after the meeting, members generally agreed that overall economic prospects were similar to those prevailing at the time of the November meeting and that consequently the statement should be altered only to the minor extent required to reflect recent economic developments. They concurred that the statement should note that output appears to be growing at a moderate pace despite the earlier rise in energy prices, that labor market conditions continue to improve gradually, and that inflation and longer-term inflation expectations remain well-contained. They also agreed again to characterize the risks to sustainable growth and price stability as balanced. A few members believed that the Committee’s flexibility would be enhanced by eliminating the forward-looking elements of the Committee’s statement referring to the pace of removal of policy accommodation. More of the members believed that this language was useful in conveying the Committee’s sense of the outlook for the economy and the stance of monetary policy and was appropriately conditioned on economic developments. All members agreed that the FOMC statement for this meeting should again indicate that policy accommodation could be removed at a pace that was likely to be measured but that the Committee would respond to changes in economic prospects as needed to maintain price stability.