At its meeting on November 10, 2004, the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) adopted a directive that called for conditions in reserves markets consistent with increasing the federal funds rate to an average of around 2 percent. In its public statement, the Committee expressed a belief that monetary policy remained accommodative even after this tightening and judged that the upside and downside risks to the attainment of both sustainable growth and price stability over the next few quarters were roughly equal. The Committee noted its expectation that the underlying rate of inflation would continue to be low and that policy accommodation could be removed at a pace that is likely to be measured, but it also stated that it would nonetheless respond to changes in economic prospects as needed to fulfill its obligation to maintain price stability.

The FOMC’s decision in November to raise the intended federal funds rate 25 basis points and its attendant public statement were apparently anticipated by the market, so that the reaction was muted. Subsequently, higher-than-expected inflation data, remarks by the Chairman that were viewed as pointing to future rate increases, and the depreciation of the dollar all led market participants to price in a somewhat steeper path for future policy. The upward revision in policy expectations prompted modest increases in shorter-term Treasury coupon security yields. The yield on the ten-year Treasury note, however, was unchanged on net. Yields on both investment-grade and speculative-grade corporate bonds edged lower. The value of the dollar relative to other major currencies declined.

M2 accelerated a bit in November from its sluggish pace in October, but growth in money continued to be restrained by increases in its opportunity cost. Rates paid on the liquid components of M2 lagged increases in market rates associated with the monetary policy tightenings this year. Bank credit rebounded in November, with both securities and loans registering gains.