The information reviewed for the November 1-2 meeting indicated that real gross domestic product (GDP) expanded at a faster pace in the third quarter than in the first half of the year and that labor market conditions continued to strengthen in recent months. Consumer price inflation increased further above its pace early in the year but was still running below the Committee's longer-run objective of 2 percent, restrained in part by earlier decreases in energy prices and in prices of non-energy imports. Most survey-based measures of longer-run inflation expectations were little changed, on balance, while market-based measures of inflation compensation moved up but remained low.

Total nonfarm payroll employment expanded at a solid pace in September, and the unemployment rate was little changed at 5.0 percent. The labor force participation rate and the employment-to-population ratio both edged up in September. The share of workers employed part time for economic reasons was still slightly elevated relative to its level before the recession. The rate of private-sector job openings edged down in August, and the rates of hiring and of quits were unchanged. The four-week moving average of initial claims for unemployment insurance benefits remained low. Measures of labor compensation continued to rise at a moderate pace. The employment cost index for private industry workers increased 2-1/4 percent over the 12 months ending in September, and average hourly earnings for all employees increased 2-1/2 percent over the same 12-month period.

The unemployment rates for African Americans and for Hispanics remained above the rate for whites but were close to the levels seen just prior to the most recent recession. The labor force participation rate for white individuals aged 25 to 54 continued to be higher than for African Americans and for Hispanics, but the rates for all three groups appeared to have either moved sideways or edged up recently.

Total industrial production increased slightly in September after little change, on net, in July and August. Mining output continued to rise, on balance, in recent months, but manufacturing production was little changed. Over the previous two years, manufacturing output was relatively flat, reflecting the effects of weak export demand, spillovers from the earlier declines in crude oil and natural gas drilling, and slow domestic capital investment more generally. Automakers' assembly schedules suggested that motor vehicle production would be about unchanged in the near term, and broader indicators of manufacturing production, such as the new orders indexes from national and regional manufacturing surveys, pointed toward only tepid gains, at best, in factory output in the coming months.

Real personal consumption expenditures (PCE) increased at a moderate pace in the third quarter, supported by continued gains in employment, real disposable personal income, and households' net worth. Consumer spending increased in September, partly because of an increase in outlays for motor vehicles. Indeed, unit sales of light motor vehicles rose sharply in September and moved higher in October, supported in part by sizable sales incentives. In addition, consumer sentiment as measured by the University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers remained relatively upbeat in October.

Housing market activity was weak in the third quarter. Real residential investment spending decreased, partly reflecting a decline in total housing starts. The most recent construction data were mixed, with starts for new single-family homes increasing in September and starts for multifamily units declining sharply. Building permit issuance for new single-family homes--which tends to be a good indicator of the underlying trend in construction--was little changed, on balance, in recent months and had remained essentially flat since late last year. Sales of new homes decreased, on net, in August and September, but sales of existing homes increased modestly.

Real private expenditures for business equipment and intellectual property were about flat in the third quarter. New orders for nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft were little changed over August and September, but orders were somewhat above the level of shipments, suggesting a modest pickup in business spending for equipment in the near term. Real business expenditures for nonresidential structures increased in the third quarter, and the number of oil and gas rigs in operation, an indicator of spending for structures in the drilling and mining sector, continued to edge up in October. Real inventory investment was positive in the third quarter after subtracting substantially from real GDP growth in the second quarter. Except in the energy sector, inventories generally seemed well aligned with the pace of sales.

Real federal purchases increased in the third quarter, as defense expenditures turned up and nondefense spending continued to rise. Real state and local government purchases decreased, reflecting a decline in real construction spending by these governments that more than offset a net expansion in state and local government payrolls during the third quarter.

Net exports contributed positively to real GDP growth in the third quarter, largely because of the strength of soybean exports. The nominal U.S. international trade deficit widened in August relative to July, as imports rose more than exports. Import growth was driven by higher imports of capital goods and services, while export growth was led in part by higher exports of industrial supplies and automotive products. The Census Bureau's advance trade estimates for September suggested a narrowing of the trade deficit, with further growth in exports and a decline in imports relative to August.

Total U.S. consumer prices, as measured by the PCE price index, increased about 1-1/4 percent over the 12 months ending in September, partly restrained by recent decreases in consumer food prices and earlier declines in consumer energy prices. Core PCE price inflation, which excludes changes in food and energy prices, was about 1-3/4 percent over those same 12 months, held down in part by decreases in the prices of non-energy imports over part of this period and by the pass-through of earlier declines in energy prices into the prices of other goods and services. Over the 12 months ending in September, total consumer prices as measured by the consumer price index (CPI) rose 1-1/2 percent, while core CPI inflation was around 2-1/4 percent. The Michigan survey measure of median longer-run inflation expectations moved down in October to a new historical low, and the longer-run measure from the Blue Chip Economic Indicators also declined slightly. Measures of longer-run inflation expectations from the Desk's Survey of Primary Dealers and Survey of Market Participants were unchanged in October.

Foreign real GDP growth appeared to pick up significantly in the third quarter following weak growth in the second quarter that primarily reflected contractions in Canada and Mexico. The recovery of oil production in Canada boosted economic activity there, and a pickup in U.S. economic activity and strong household spending in Mexico supported a sharp rebound in Mexican GDP growth. The improvements in these economies more than offset some moderation of growth in China. In the euro area and Japan, economic growth continued at a modest pace. Inflation generally remained subdued in both the emerging market economies and the advanced foreign economies (AFEs). A notable exception was the United Kingdom, where inflationary pressures increased, partly as a result of a substantial depreciation of the pound in recent months.