Domestic financial markets were relatively calm over the period since the September FOMC meeting. Asset prices were little changed, and volatility was mostly low. Market expectations for an increase in the target range for the federal funds rate before the end of the year rose modestly. Nominal Treasury yields edged up on net. No significant market disruptions were observed around the October 14 compliance deadline for MMF reform. Financing conditions for nonfinancial firms and households remained accommodative, on balance, and the credit quality of nonfinancial corporations continued to show signs of stabilization after having deteriorated in earlier quarters.

Federal Reserve communications immediately following the September meeting, notably the Summary of Economic Projections, were interpreted by market participants as slightly more accommodative than expected. Subsequent Federal Reserve communications and U.S. economic data releases over the intermeeting period were generally interpreted as in line with market expectations. The expected path for the federal funds rate implied by quotes on overnight index swap rates steepened slightly, on net, over the intermeeting period. Market-based estimates of the probability of a rate increase before the end of the year rose modestly to about 65 percent. Consistent with market-based estimates, respondents to the Desk's November surveys of primary dealers and market participants on average assigned a probability of about 60 percent to a rate increase by the end of this year. Based on the median responses, the most likely path of the target federal funds rate in 2017 and 2018 was little changed from that reported in the September surveys.

Nominal Treasury yields edged up, on net, since the September FOMC meeting. Yields declined early in the period following the September FOMC communications and amid concerns about developments potentially affecting profitability in the European banking sector, but they subsequently rose. Although those market concerns ebbed somewhat, they remained significant. Nominal yields were pushed up by an increase in inflation compensation, which appeared attributable to a combination of factors, including the recent rise in oil prices and a decline in investors' concerns about the risk of very low inflation outcomes, as implied by quotes on inflation caps and floors.

Broad stock price indexes were little changed, on net, since the September FOMC meeting. Realized and implied volatility in equity markets remained relatively low. Spreads of yields on nonfinancial investment-grade and speculative-grade corporate bonds over those of comparable-maturity Treasury securities declined a bit, with both spreads finishing the period at levels close to their medians during the economic expansions of the past two decades. Based on available reports and analysts' estimates, aggregate corporate earnings per share appeared to continue to rebound in the third quarter, reflecting improvements across a wide range of industries, including the energy sector.

Foreign equity indexes broadly increased over the intermeeting period. Nonetheless, foreign financial markets were sensitive to news about upcoming negotiations between the United Kingdom and the European Union (EU) over the U.K. exit from the EU as well as to ongoing developments in the European banking sector. Over the period, the dollar appreciated against most AFE currencies; the appreciation against the pound was particularly pronounced, reflecting increased concerns that negotiations between U.K. and European officials would result in an outcome featuring less economic integration than anticipated earlier. Concerns about U.K.-EU negotiations and higher U.K. inflation compensation also drove up 10-year gilt yields. In contrast, the dollar depreciated against the currencies of most commodity-exporting countries, including the Mexican peso and Russian ruble, consistent with the increase in oil prices.

Money market reform continued to affect several short-term funding markets in the weeks leading up to the October 14, 2016, compliance deadline, as investors continued to shift from prime funds to government funds. However, these flows slowed significantly in the days just before October 14 and remained subdued afterward. Measures of the liquidity of institutional prime funds, which had increased substantially ahead of the compliance deadline, subsequently declined. The rise in total assets of government funds over the intermeeting period appeared to contribute to moderately elevated take-up at the System's ON RRP facility. Overnight Eurodollar deposit volumes fell substantially in the weeks preceding the MMF reform compliance deadline and remained low as prime funds pulled back from lending in this market. Despite these volume changes, there was little effect on overnight money market rates, although the spread between the three-month London interbank offered rate and the overnight index swap rate remained elevated.

Financing conditions for nonfinancial firms remained generally accommodative. Gross issuance of corporate bonds was robust in September amid strong global demand for bonds and low yields. Growth of commercial and industrial (C&I) loans slowed overall in the third quarter but picked up in September. Demand and lending standards for C&I loans remained unchanged, on net, in the third quarter, according to the October Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices (SLOOS).

The credit quality of nonfinancial corporations, which had deteriorated somewhat over the past few quarters, continued to show signs of stabilization. The volume of bond downgrades only slightly outpaced that of upgrades in September. Default rates and expected year-ahead default rates for nonfinancial firms both edged down, although they remained elevated compared with their ranges in recent years.

Financing conditions for commercial real estate (CRE) also remained largely accommodative but showed some signs of tightening. Growth of CRE loans on banks' books continued to be strong in the third quarter, even though a significant number of banks reported in the October SLOOS that they had tightened lending standards on CRE loans. Issuance of commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS) picked up in the third quarter relative to its pace in the first half of the year. Spreads on CMBS were little changed over the intermeeting period.

In the municipal bond market, gross issuance of bonds was brisk and yields on general obligation bonds, on balance, edged up. The credit quality of state and local governments was generally stable.

Financing conditions in the residential mortgage market were little changed since the September FOMC meeting, and credit remained readily available for most borrowers. Interest rates on 30-year fixed-rate mortgages edged up but stayed at a low level. In the October SLOOS, several large banks noted a continued easing of standards for home-purchase loans eligible for purchase by the government-sponsored enterprises. Indicators suggested that refinancing activity continued to increase and reached its highest level since 2013 in response to the low level of mortgage rates.

Conditions in consumer credit markets were little changed, on balance, against a backdrop of largely stable credit quality. Growth in both revolving and nonrevolving loans remained robust. While auto credit standards were broadly unchanged, respondents to the October SLOOS indicated that they had tightened credit card standards for subprime customers. Yield spreads for securities backed by credit card and auto loans over Treasury securities of comparable maturities were little changed on balance. Issuance of consumer asset-backed securities picked up somewhat in the third quarter from the levels seen earlier this year.

In its latest report on potential risks to the stability of the U.S. financial system, the staff continued to judge that overall vulnerabilities remained moderate. Vulnerabilities associated with maturity and liquidity transformation appeared to have been reduced, reflecting the effects of newly implemented rules for prime MMFs. Vulnerabilities emanating from leverage in the financial sector remained low, as the largest U.S. banks had strong regulatory capital and liquidity positions. Valuation pressures across major asset categories remained at a moderate level: Although some metrics for CRE transactions indicated notable valuation pressures, CRE lending standards had tightened somewhat over the previous year, and valuations for domestic corporate equity and bonds were, on balance, in the middle of their historical ranges in relation to still-low Treasury yields. Vulnerabilities from leverage in the private nonfinancial sector were seen as moderate overall, reflecting the combination of relatively high aggregate leverage in the corporate sector, a sharp slowdown in the expansion of the riskiest forms of corporate debt, and a continued modest rise in aggregate household debt that accrued almost exclusively to borrowers with very high credit scores.

Monetary policy announcements by foreign central banks had limited effects on asset prices. At its September monetary policy meeting, the Bank of Japan (BOJ) announced that it will purchase Japanese government bonds (JGBs) to keep the yield on 10-year JGBs around zero; the BOJ also announced that it will continue to expand the monetary base until consumer price inflation exceeds the 2 percent target and stays above the target in a stable manner. No further changes were announced following the BOJ's October meeting. The European Central Bank kept its policy stance unchanged at its October meeting while signaling that further changes to its asset purchase program could be announced at its next meeting.