Several factors influenced developments in financial markets since the time of the June FOMC meeting. Generally weaker-than-expected economic data in the United States, concerns about the fiscal and banking situation in the euro area, and the outlook for global economic growth weighed on investor sentiment. However, the effects of these factors were offset to some extent by actual and expected easing of monetary policy in the United States and abroad and by better-than-anticipated profits at some S&P 500 firms.

Interest rates generally moved down, on net, over the intermeeting period. The yield on nominal 10-year Treasury securities declined to a historically low level, partly due to a lower expected path of the federal funds rate, the continuation of the maturity extension program announced at the June FOMC meeting, and perceptions of an increased likelihood that the Federal Reserve will ease monetary policy further. In addition, persistent concerns about euro-area developments were reportedly associated with increased safe-haven demands that contributed to the decline in Treasury yields. Anecdotal reports suggested that the decrease in shorter-term yields may also have reflected somewhat increased expectations that the Federal Reserve would reduce the interest rate paid on reserve balances in coming months. Near-term indicators of inflation expectations derived from nominal and inflation-protected Treasury securities fell modestly despite an increase in some commodity prices; such indicators changed little at longer horizons. The expected path for the federal funds rate derived from money market futures quotes shifted down.

Conditions in short-term unsecured dollar funding markets remained stable over the intermeeting period, although most peripheral euro-area institutions continued to have little, if any, access to such markets. In secured funding markets, Treasury general collateral repurchase agreement rates rose slightly on balance.

Broad indexes of U.S. equity prices rose somewhat, on net, over the intermeeting period, with significant gains prompted in part by comments from European officials that apparently raised investor expectations for near-term European policy actions. Option-implied volatility on the S&P 500 index rose slightly. Stock prices for the large domestic bank holding companies posted mixed changes over the period, and credit default swap (CDS) spreads for those firms generally moved lower on net.

Yields on investment- and speculative-grade corporate bonds fell further over the intermeeting period, approaching record lows. Their spreads relative to comparable-maturity Treasury securities narrowed but were still above their average levels prior to the financial crisis. Nonfinancial firms continued to issue debt at a strong pace over the period. Gross investment-grade corporate bond issuance remained robust in June and July, while the volume of nonfinancial commercial paper outstanding rose early in the second quarter but decreased slightly in June. Commercial and industrial (C&I) loans advanced further over the intermeeting period. Issuance in the syndicated leveraged loan market remained solid in the second quarter; terms and structures of new leveraged loan deals reportedly loosened modestly on the margin. Gross public equity issuance by nonfinancial firms was anemic in June and July.

Financial conditions in the commercial real estate market remained somewhat strained against a backdrop of weak fundamentals and still-tight underwriting. That said, issuance of commercial mortgage-backed securities picked up in the second quarter.

Despite new historical lows for residential mortgage rates over the intermeeting period, refinancing activity remained relatively muted. Evidence from the Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices (SLOOS) conducted in July indicated that mortgage underwriting standards at banks generally have not eased much from their tightest post-crisis levels. Consumer credit expanded further in May as a result of rapid increases in student loans and, to a lesser extent, auto loans. Delinquency rates for consumer credit remained low, likely in part because of a compositional shift of credit supply over the past few years toward the least-risky borrowers.

Gross issuance of long-term municipal bonds was robust in June and July. Net issuance of long-term bonds turned positive in the second quarter after staying in negative territory for much of the past year. Yields on long-term general obligation municipal bonds generally followed Treasury yields lower, while default rates remained very low and CDS spreads for states were roughly unchanged on net.

Bank credit and total loans continued to expand modestly in the second quarter, largely because of the further robust increase in C&I loans. The gradual expansion in total loans was broadly consistent with the July SLOOS, in which domestic banks generally indicated that demand strengthened for many types of loans in the second quarter and that lending standards eased somewhat, on balance, across most major loan categories.

The staff's broad nominal index for the foreign exchange value of the dollar changed little, on net, over the intermeeting period, although the dollar appreciated against the euro. Financial markets in the euro area were volatile, as a deterioration in market sentiment gave way to periods of optimism following the euro-area summit in late June, the decision by the European Central Bank (ECB) to ease policy in early July, and indications from the ECB later in July that the central bank might take further steps to support the monetary union. On net, European stock markets finished the period higher. Yield spreads on Spanish and Italian 10-year bonds over their German equivalents, which rose sharply over most of July, fell back from their intermeeting peaks but remained elevated.

Several foreign central banks eased monetary policy over the intermeeting period. The ECB cut its benchmark policy rate by 25 basis points and reduced the rate on its overnight deposit facility to zero. The Bank of England increased the size of its asset purchase program and announced details on its new program designed to boost bank lending to the nonfinancial sector. The central banks of Brazil, China, and South Korea all reduced official rates as well. Amid policy easing in the euro area and United Kingdom, yields on German and U.K. sovereign bonds declined, with two-year German sovereign bonds trading at yields below zero.