A staff presentation summarized research on the efficacy of alternative simple monetary policy rules in fostering the Federal Reserve's monetary policy objectives of maximum employment and price stability. The presentation reviewed the characteristics of a variety of rules and noted a number of reasons why current conditions might warrant deviating from the prescriptions of simple rules designed for more normal times. The presentation also discussed how simple rules might be used as part of a comprehensive policy framework to provide clear and transparent benchmarks for monetary policy decisionmaking and the possibility that such rules could be helpful in communicating the connection between policy choices and the Federal Open Market Committee's (FOMC) objectives.

Meeting participants expressed a range of views regarding the appropriate role of policy rules in monetary policy decisionmaking. A number of participants indicated that such rules have played a useful role in informing the Committee's monetary policy deliberations. However, several participants pointed to specific considerations--including the possible mismeasurement of unobservable variables, such as potential output, and uncertainty about the appropriate economic models to use in estimating the magnitude of those variables--that might limit the usefulness of simple rules both internally and in public communications. Several participants saw value in examining the performance of rules across a range of economic models. Participants discussed the case for making adjustments to the prescriptions of simple policy rules in the current circumstances to take into account various considerations such as the effective lower bound for the federal funds rate, the effects of the Committee's balance sheet policies, and potential shifts in the dynamics of the economy. Some participants noted that adjustment of standard policy rules for balance sheet policies would tend to push up the federal funds rate prescription, while a number of participants indicated that other factors related to current circumstances may warrant maintaining an accommodative stance of policy for longer than would be prescribed by standard rules. With regard to the latter, some participants suggested that inertial policy rules--that is, rules under which any movements in the stance of policy tend to be fairly persistent--would be most appropriate in the current context.