The Committee met by videoconference on March 4, 2014, to discuss issues associated with its forward guidance for the federal funds rate. The Committee discussed possible changes to its forward guidance that could provide additional information about the factors likely to enter its decisions regarding the federal funds rate target as the unemployment rate approached its 6-1/2 percent threshold and once that threshold was crossed. The agenda did not contemplate any policy decisions, and none were taken.

Many participants noted that market expectations of the future course of the federal funds rate were currently reasonably well aligned with those of policymakers, and that a sizable change to the forward guidance could disturb this alignment. Nonetheless, participants generally saw the Committee's upcoming meeting as an opportune occasion for a reformulation of the guidance language; one of these participants suggested that the reformulation could be accompanied by a statement that the new language was intended to be consistent with current market expectations. A few participants stressed that the Committee had several other vehicles, including the Chair's postmeeting press conference, through which it could clarify its future policy intentions.

Participants agreed that the existing forward guidance, with its reference to a 6-1/2 percent threshold for the unemployment rate, was becoming outdated as the unemployment rate continued its expected gradual decline. Most participants felt that the quantitative thresholds had been very useful in communicating policy intentions when employment was far from mandate-consistent levels, but, with the economy having moved appreciably closer to maximum employment, the forward guidance should emphasize that the Committee is focusing more on a broader set of economic indicators. Thus, most participants felt that quantitative thresholds, triggers, or floors should not be a part of future statement language, with a number of participants noting the uncertainty associated with defining and measuring the unemployment rate and the level of employment that would be most consistent with the Committee's maximum employment objective, or other similar concepts. These participants generally favored qualitative language describing the economic factors that would influence the Committee's decision regarding the first increase in the federal funds rate target. Participants put forward a number of suggestions for such qualitative language. One participant favored linking the length of time that the federal funds rate would remain at the lower bound to the period over which complete recovery of the labor market was projected to occur, while another advocated qualitative forward guidance expressed in terms of the Committee's projections of real output growth, arguing that such an approach would avoid the uncertainties associated with estimates of potential output or maximum employment. Yet another participant argued that it would be desirable for the statement to describe the Committee's reasons for keeping the federal funds rate at the lower bound when standard policy rules were prescribing that the rate should be increased and noted that one possible reason for doing so is that the effective lower bound on the federal funds rate limits the Committee's scope to provide accommodation in response to adverse shocks. In contrast, some participants expressed a preference for quantitative guidance. A few participants saw merit in stating explicitly that the Committee would provide accommodation to the extent necessary to prevent inflation from running persistently below its 2 percent longer-run goal. One of these participants argued that such forward guidance would strengthen the credibility of the Committee's inflation objective as well as encourage employment outcomes that were most consistent with the Committee's other objective of maximum employment. Another participant suggested that the Committee state that it would adjust policy to keep projected inflation near 2 percent over the medium term, and that it would balance deviations from its objectives in the near term. Still another participant expressed a preference for stating explicit quantitative criteria for some labor market variable or variables.

Most participants favored providing information about the likely behavior of the federal funds rate after its first increase. A few participants, however, viewed the period of policy firming as likely to be far enough in the future that the Committee did not need to provide such information at this stage.

Committee participants also considered whether revised forward guidance should include a more prominent mention of financial developments or of potential risks to financial stability. Most participants felt that the Committee's monitoring of financial conditions and of risks to financial stability was already well understood by markets and that, while some reference to financial developments might usefully be included in the statement, a lengthy addition did not seem necessary. One participant favored including a reference in the statement to "financial conditions," rather than "financial stability," emphasizing that, when factors other than monetary policy induce a change in financial conditions, the Committee may need to take that change in financial conditions into account when making its monetary policy decisions.

_____________________________

William B. English Secretary