At its meeting on March 20, 2001, the Committee adopted a directive that called for maintaining conditions in reserve markets consistent with a decrease of 50 basis points in the intended level of the federal funds rate, to about 5 percent. This action, in conjunction with a further easing of ½ percentage point on April 18, was intended to help promote a more satisfactory economic expansion going forward. Under then-current conditions, the members agreed that the balance of risks remained weighted toward conditions that could generate economic weakness in the foreseeable future.

Federal funds traded at rates near the Committee's target levels over the intermeeting period. Other short-term interest rates generally fell somewhat less than the reduction in the federal funds rate because the markets had anticipated the easing in policy, though only in part. In contrast to the declines in short-term rates, longer-term yields rose on balance as investors apparently became more confident of a pickup in output growth, supported in part by improved prospects for substantial federal tax reductions. The more optimistic assessment of the economic outlook and the unexpected intermeeting easing action apparently contributed to a narrowing of risk premiums on lower-grade private debt obligations and to a rise in equity prices. Better-than-expected first-quarter earnings also boosted stock prices, and broad indexes of U.S. stock market prices moved substantially higher.

In foreign exchange markets, the trade-weighted value of the dollar in terms of many of the major foreign currencies changed little on balance over the intermeeting interval. A number of major foreign central banks cut their policy rates during the period, but by less than the two easing steps in the United States. The dollar's appreciation against the euro was offset by its decline in terms of the yen and the Canadian dollar. The dollar also was essentially unchanged in terms of an index of the currencies of other important trading partners. The value of the Mexican peso rose appreciably against the dollar as monetary authorities maintained their tight policy stance and as spreads on Mexican debt narrowed. In contrast, concerns about potential spillovers from Argentina's worsening financial difficulties depressed the value of the Brazilian real relative to the dollar.

The broad monetary aggregates continued to grow rapidly in March and April. In addition to the effects of lower market interest rates, extensive mortgage financing activity and a flight to safety from volatile equity markets likely added to M2's strong upward trend. The expansion of M3 was bolstered by robust growth of institution-only money funds and by greater issuance of managed liabilities included in this aggregate to help finance faster growth of bank credit and a shift in bank funding from foreign to U.S. sources. The debt of domestic nonfinancial sectors had grown at a moderate pace on balance through April.