The information reviewed at this meeting suggested that the economic expansion remained very sluggish. Household spending, especially for housing and motor vehicles, had held up relatively well, but business investment was quite weak and appeared to be decreasing further. Persistent inventory overhangs in a number of sectors had led to additional substantial cuts in manufacturing production. Reflecting in part the downtrend in manufacturing output, labor demand had weakened considerably and unemployment had risen. Price inflation had picked up a little but, abstracting from energy, had remained relatively subdued.

Private nonfarm payroll employment fell sharply in April after a small drop in March. Manufacturing, construction, and the service sector recorded large payroll declines in April, and gains elsewhere were small. The unemployment rate increased further, to 4.5 percent in April, and initial claims for unemployment insurance averaged over the four weeks ended April 28 were at their highest level since 1993.

Industrial production declined appreciably further in April. Manufacturing output registered a seventh consecutive monthly drop, while a robust boost to mining activity associated with strong gains in crude oil and gas production was offset by a decrease in utilities output in a period of unusually warm weather. In manufacturing, the production of motor vehicles and parts was unchanged in April after having surged in February and March, but the output of high-tech equipment continued to trend steeply downward, and there was widespread weakness in the manufacture of other industrial products. Reflecting the production cutbacks, the rate of utilization of manufacturing capacity fell even further below its long-run average.

Consumer spending had held up relatively well thus far this year despite the deceleration in personal incomes, reduced household net worth, and deterioration in consumer sentiment since last autumn. After a solid first-quarter gain, nominal retail sales rose briskly in April, reflecting strong outlays at general merchandise and apparel stores, building and material outlets, and automotive dealers. Growth of spending on services slowed in the first quarter (latest data), partly because of a weather-related drop in consumption of energy services.

Low mortgage rates continued to provide support to residential building activity. The first-quarter average for total housing starts was the strongest quarterly reading in a year despite a March decline in starts that might have been exaggerated by unusual weather patterns. In addition, sales of new and existing homes remained brisk through March. New home sales reached a new high in March, and sales of existing homes were only a little below their record high in June 1999.

Against the background of a sluggish economy and deteriorating earnings, business capital spending on equipment and software declined somewhat further in the first quarter. Increased purchases of cars and trucks were among the few areas of strength in business equipment expenditures; elsewhere, outlays for high-tech equipment decreased on a quarterly basis for the first time since the 1990 recession, and spending for equipment such as industrial machinery changed little. Moreover, recent data on orders for nondefense capital goods suggested that some further slippage in future spending for equipment was likely. By contrast, nonresidential construction continued to expand briskly; expenditures for oil and gas exploration surged in the first quarter, and nonresidential building activity continued at a rapid pace, with sizable gains recorded for most major categories of buildings.

Business inventories on a book-value basis fell steeply further in March, with roughly half of the decline reflecting a runoff of motor vehicle stocks at the wholesale and retail levels. Despite the sharp liquidation of inventories in the manufacturing sector in February and March, the aggregate inventory-shipments ratio for that sector edged higher in March to a level well above that of a year ago. In the wholesale trade sector, aggregate stocks dropped somewhat on balance in the first quarter and the sector's stock-sales ratio edged lower; nonetheless, the sector's ratio in March also was above its level of a year earlier. Retail inventories ran off in February and March after a small January rise, and the sector's inventory-sales ratio decreased somewhat on balance to around the middle of its range for the past twelve months.

The U.S. trade deficit in goods and services narrowed considerably in February, reflecting a further rise in the value of exports and a sharp drop in the value of imports. The average deficit for the first two months of the year was smaller than that for the fourth quarter. Nonetheless, exports for the January-February period were below the fourth-quarter average, with notable declines occurring in automotive products, industrial supplies, and semiconductors. The slowdown in imports in January-February was broadly spread across trade categories, with the largest decreases occurring in automotive products, high-tech goods, and oil. Recent information indicated that economic activity in the foreign industrial countries had decelerated since the fourth quarter. Expansion in the euro area, the United Kingdom, and Canada appeared to have slowed significantly, while the Japanese economy seemed to have faltered after a brief rebound late last year. In addition, economic growth in the major developing countries had softened markedly, with the slowdown in most of those countries reflecting weaker external demand.

Overall inflation had been held down thus far this year by a deceleration in energy prices, but by some measures core price inflation had picked up a bit. The total consumer price index (CPI) increased moderately in February and March (latest data), and the increase in that index during the past twelve months was smaller than that during the previous twelve-month period, reflecting reduced increases in energy prices. By contrast, core CPI inflation picked up slightly in the February-March period and on a year-over-year basis. However, inflation as measured by the core personal consumption expenditure (PCE) chain-type price index, though also running a little higher in February-March, recorded a small decline on a year-over-year basis. At the producer level, core finished goods inflation was subdued in March and April but moved up somewhat on a year-over-year basis. With regard to labor costs, growth in the employment cost index (ECI) for hourly compensation picked up noticeably in the first quarter of this year; however, the gain in compensation for the four quarters ended in March was a little below the large increase for the four-quarter period ended in March 2000. By contrast, average hourly earnings of production or nonsupervisory workers rose more briskly in April and on a year-over-year basis.