In the Committee's discussion of current and prospective economic developments, members commented that the slowdown in the expansion to a now quite sluggish pace was likely to be more prolonged than they had anticipated earlier and indeed, with the economy displaying some signs of fragility and inventories still appearing excessive in some sectors, it was not entirely clear that the slowing in the growth of the economy had bottomed out. Despite the crosscurrents and uncertainties that were involved, members saw an upturn in the economic expansion by later in the year as the most likely outlook. This view was premised in large measure on the lagged effects of the Committee's relatively aggressive easing actions this year, including any further easing that might be adopted at this meeting, growing prospects of some fiscal policy stimulus later in the year, and more generally the favorable effects of still substantial productivity gains on profit opportunities and income growth and hence on business and household demands for goods and services. As business profits stabilized and final demand firmed, inventory liquidation would come to an end, adding to the upward momentum of economic activity. The members were uncertain as to the degree and timing of the strengthening in final demand, and although a relatively prompt and strong rebound could not be ruled out, many saw a variety of factors that pointed to the possibility that the upturn could be weaker or more delayed than the central tendencies of their expectations. With regard to the outlook for inflation, a number of members expressed concern about a tendency for some measures of inflation to edge higher this year, but many members expected that the easing of pressures in labor and product markets that already had occurred and were likely to continue in the months ahead would damp inflation going forward.

In their review of developments across the nation, members referred to quite sluggish economic conditions in many parts of the country. Weakness remained especially pronounced in manufacturing, but as reflected in the employment data for April and in widespread anecdotal reports, softening had spread to other sectors of the economy as well. At the same time, pockets of strength could be found in a number of industries, notably in energy and construction, and overall business activity continued to display considerable vigor in a number of regions. Members noted that business confidence had deteriorated, but some also observed that the pessimism tended to be limited to the nearer term and was accompanied by favorable expectations regarding the outlook later in the year and in 2002.

With regard to the outlook for key sectors of the economy, a number of members commented that consumer spending had held up reasonably well in recent months despite a variety of adverse developments including the negative wealth effects of stock market declines, widely publicized job cutbacks, heavy consumer debt loads, and previous overspending by many consumers. A recent survey had indicated that consumer sentiment had firmed a little, but the survey results had yet to be confirmed by additional surveys and the level of consumer confidence was still well below earlier highs. As in the past, consumer spending attitudes likely would depend importantly on trends in employment and income, and further increases in unemployment in the period just ahead along with the negative wealth effects of earlier stock market price declines and the persistence of high energy costs were likely to constrain the growth in consumer expenditures over coming quarters.

Household expenditures on home construction had been maintained at a relatively robust level in recent months, evidently reflecting the cushioning effects of very attractive mortgage interest rates. Housing activity was described as a source of strength in many regions. Housing prices had tended to edge higher across the nation, though there were signs that the price appreciation had eased in some parts of the country, notably on the West Coast. While the prevailing negative influences on household spending might spill over a bit more to housing activity over the year ahead, there were few current developments in housing markets that might be read as signaling any marked weakening in this sector of the economy.

A softening in business demand for capital equipment had accounted for much of the slowdown in the growth of final demand in late 2000 and early 2001. The latest available data on new orders pointed to further, and possibly larger, declines in business spending on equipment and software over the months ahead. Members cited anecdotal and survey reports that indicated many business firms were canceling, cutting back, or stretching out planned capital expenditures. It was difficult to see any signs of a significant near-term turnaround in business spending for equipment and software, and the timing and strength of a subsequent rebound would depend importantly on the outlook for sales and profits. With regard to profit expectations, the most recent data showed continued markdowns, but the pace of downward revisions was diminishing. It was too early to conclude that the outlook for profits might be approaching a degree of stability or be near the point of turning up, and in any event it was clear that business sentiment currently was quite gloomy. Looking to the future, however, members anticipated that continuing gains in efficiency engendered by new technologies would provide substantial profit opportunities and likely strengthen investment spending during the course of the year ahead. In the meantime, nonresidential construction and energy-related investments were a source of some support to investment spending, but they provided only a very partial offset to widespread weakness in other business spending.

Ongoing efforts to reduce excess inventories were continuing to curb output in manufacturing industries and to restrain growth in overall economic activity. A number of members commented that anecdotal and other evidence suggested that considerable progress already had been made in scaling down unwanted inventories, notably of motor vehicles, but substantial further progress probably would be needed in high-tech industries where sales were still falling. How long inventory cutbacks would continue to exert a significant drag on the economic expansion remained a key uncertainty in the economic outlook. In the view of many members, the adjustment process might not be substantially completed until much later in the year and could take even longer for high-tech firms. This evaluation assumed continued sluggish growth in final demand during the period immediately ahead. Stronger growth, which could not be ruled out, would of course bring inventory-sales ratios to desired levels more quickly.

Members also expressed concern about the potential implications for U.S. expansion from developments abroad. To some extent, economic difficulties in foreign nations had occurred in concert with softening activity in the United States, and notable weakness in world high-tech markets along with the downward adjustment in equity prices globally represented a downside risk factor worldwide. The anticipated recovery in this country would help to strengthen many foreign economies and in turn improve prospects for U.S. exports. Members noted, however, that in some nations persisting structural problems presented threats to national economic prosperity and international trade. On balance, while the external risks to the U.S. economy clearly were to the downside, at least over the nearer term, the prospective rebound in U.S. economic activity and stimulative macroeconomic policies abroad were expected to contribute to strengthening growth worldwide and to improving prospects for exports during the year ahead.

The nation's fiscal outlook was seen as supportive of aggregate demand. While the exact structure of tax cuts was still being negotiated, passage of new fiscal measures seemed imminent and likely would help bolster consumption spending beginning later in the year. Whatever its precise timing, the expansionary fiscal package would undoubtedly join at some point in coming quarters with the lagged effects of the System's policy easing actions to foster strengthening economic expansion.

A number of members commented that the persisting updrift in some key measures of core inflation had become increasingly worrisome. In this regard, they noted that some of the recent increases in bond yields could represent a rise in long-term inflation expectations. Such a rise would not be entirely unexpected in the context of improving sentiment about the strength of the expansion, the potentially adverse implications for costs of the cyclical weakness in productivity, and the possibility that high energy prices and their passthrough effects might persist longer than had been anticipated earlier. To a considerable extent, however, any uptick in inflation expectations likely represented a reversal of anticipated declines in inflation earlier this year when economic prospects had seemed weaker and survey data did not confirm any increase in long-term inflation expectations. Moreover, not all measures of core inflation had accelerated; in particular, core PCE price inflation had been quite stable on a twelve-month basis for some time.

Looking ahead, most members did not foresee a significant rise in inflation as a likely prospect. They cited the prevalence of highly competitive conditions in most markets, which continued to make it very difficult for business firms to raise prices despite pressures to do so in a period of rising labor, energy, and other costs. Widespread evidence of some lessening of pressures in most labor markets across the nation had not yet resulted in lower wage inflation, but the members expected that recent and anticipated ebbing of pressures on labor and other resources and associated slack in product markets in a period of continuing subpar economic growth, along with projected declines in energy prices, would hold down inflation over the forecast horizon. Nonetheless, there were some risks of rising inflation. An unexpectedly strong rebound in economic growth could begin to put added upward pressure on prices at a time when labor markets were still tight by historical standards and accelerating productivity no longer held down increases in unit labor costs. Given the lags in the effectiveness of monetary policy, such pressure might materialize before the effects of countervailing actions by the Committee had a chance to take hold.

In the Committee's discussion of policy for the forthcoming intermeeting period, all but one of the members indicated that they could support a proposal calling for further easing of reserve conditions consistent with a 50 basis point reduction in the federal funds rate to a level of 4 percent. One member expressed a strong preference for a 25 basis point reduction and two others indicated that they could have accepted that more limited easing move. Despite their somewhat differing preferences, all the members agreed that further easing was desirable in light of what they viewed as the continuing weakness in the economy, the absence of evidence that growth had stabilized or was about to rebound, and still decidedly downside risks to the economic expansion. Some members noted that, although policy had been eased substantially, it might still be considered to be only marginally accommodative in relation to the forces that were damping aggregate demand. Accordingly, the action contemplated for today was needed to provide adequate stimulus to an economy whose outlook for significant strengthening remained tenuous in a climate of fragile business and consumer confidence. Members noted that the lagged effects of the monetary policy easing implemented earlier this year were still very hard to discern, though they should be felt increasingly over the year ahead. In this regard the risks of rising inflation could not be dismissed, and while those risks appeared to be quite limited for the nearer term, excessive monetary stimulus had to be avoided to avert rising inflation expectations and added inflation pressures over time. Members who preferred or could support a 25 basis point easing action gave particular emphasis to the desirability at this point of taking and signaling a more cautious approach to policy, relative to the 50 basis point federal funds rate reductions the Committee had been implementing, given the lagged effects of the substantial reduction in the federal funds rate to date, the accompanying buildup in liquidity, and the related risk that a further aggressive easing action would increase the odds of an overly accommodative policy stance and rising inflationary pressures in the future.

All the members accepted a proposal to include in the press statement to be released after this meeting a sentence indicating that the Committee continued to regard the risks to the economic outlook as being tilted toward weakness even after today's easing action. Forecasts of growth in business earnings and spending continued to be revised down, and until that process ended, weakness in demand seemed to be the main threat to satisfactory economic performance. At the same time the members anticipated that a neutral balance of risks statement could be appropriate before long, probably well before substantial evidence had emerged that economic growth had strengthened appreciably, once the Committee could see that policy had eased enough to promote a future return to maximum sustainable economic growth. Indeed, it was not clear how much more the federal funds rate might have to be reduced after today in the absence of further significantly adverse shocks, and some members noted that the end of the easing process might be near. Even so, with the economy perhaps still in the midst of a process of weakening growth in aggregate demand of unknown persistence and dimension, the members generally agreed that, given prevailing uncertainties, it would be premature for the Committee to shift its balance of risks statement at this time.