Domestic financial market conditions remained generally accommodative over the intermeeting period. Prices of risky assets increased a bit on net, Treasury yields declined, and the dollar depreciated. The decline in Treasury yields reportedly was driven in part by investor expectations of a somewhat slower pace of policy rate increases following FOMC communications after the March meeting and some waning of investor optimism about prospects for more expansionary fiscal policies.

FOMC communications over the intermeeting period reportedly were interpreted as indicating a somewhat slower pace of policy rate increases than previously expected but an earlier change to the Committee's reinvestment policy. Although the Committee's decision to raise the target range for the federal funds rate at the March meeting was widely anticipated, some of the accompanying communications were viewed as more accommodative than expected. Investors reportedly also took note of the discussion in the March FOMC minutes of the Committee's reinvestment policy as well as statements from some FOMC participants and appeared to pull forward their expectations for when the FOMC will either announce or start to implement a change to that policy. Overall, however, the market reaction to news related to potential changes in reinvestment policy appeared to be fairly limited. Quotes on overnight index swap (OIS) rates pointed to a flattening of the expected path of the federal funds rate through 2020, but a staff model suggested that a reduction in term premiums accounted for about half the decline in OIS rates.

Yields on intermediate- and longer-term nominal Treasury securities decreased 20 to 35 basis points over the intermeeting period. Investors' interpretations of FOMC communications, market perceptions of a reduced likelihood of domestic fiscal and regulatory policy changes, weaker-than-expected domestic economic data releases, and geopolitical factors and foreign political developments all reportedly placed downward pressure on yields. A staff term structure model attributed about one-third of the decline in the 10-year Treasury yield to a decrease in the average expected future short-term rate and the remaining two-thirds to a lower term premium. While inflation compensation based on Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities decreased at near-term horizons, partly reflecting the lower-than-expected March CPI release, far-term inflation compensation was little changed on net.

Broad U.S. equity price indexes increased slightly, on net, since the March FOMC meeting. One-month-ahead option-implied volatility on the S&P 500 index--the VIX--rose appreciably in mid-April, reflecting in part increased investor concerns about geopolitical factors and foreign political developments, but ended the period slightly lower, as investor concerns appeared to ease after the first round of the French presidential election. Over the intermeeting period, spreads of yields on investment- and speculative-grade nonfinancial corporate bonds over comparable-maturity Treasury securities narrowed a bit on net. Private-sector analysts continued to project robust profit growth for S&P 500 firms over 2017 even as first-quarter earnings, on a seasonally adjusted basis, were estimated to be a bit lower than in the fourth quarter.

Conditions in short-term funding markets were stable over the intermeeting period. Reflecting the FOMC's policy action in March, yields on a broad set of money market instruments moved higher. Treasury bills outstanding, which had declined before the reimposition ‎of the federal debt ceiling on March 15, moved higher thereafter, partly in connection with the Treasury's steps to rebuild its cash balance. Take-up at the System's overnight reverse repurchase agreement facility, which had risen ahead of the debt ceiling date, remained high through March and then fell to relatively low levels after quarter-end.

Financing conditions for large nonfinancial firms stayed accommodative. Gross issuance of corporate bonds and leveraged loans remained strong in March, with a large share of lower-rated debt issued for refinancing purposes. Net debt financing by nonfinancial businesses increased in the first quarter but remained noticeably below the pace of the same time last year. According to the April Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices (SLOOS), a modest share of domestic banks reported weaker demand for commercial and industrial (C&I) loans, on net, in the first quarter, mainly citing several factors that pertained to customers' reduced needs for financing. C&I lending continued to be soft early in the second quarter.

Financing conditions for commercial real estate (CRE) were broadly unchanged on net. Spreads on commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS) widened slightly over the period since the March FOMC meeting but remained near the lower end of the range seen since the financial crisis. CMBS issuance picked up in March, reportedly reflecting a return to a more normal pace after the adoption of a credit risk retention rule in late December caused some issuance to be shifted from January and February into the fourth quarter. Growth of CRE loans on banks' books slowed in the first quarter but continued to be robust overall. Domestic respondents to the April SLOOS generally reported tightening their lending standards and experiencing weaker loan demand across all major CRE loan categories during the first quarter.

Financing conditions in the residential mortgage market were little changed over the intermeeting period. Credit availability continued to be relatively tight for households with low credit scores or harder-to-document incomes but relatively accommodative for other households. Mortgage rates declined in line with yields on longer-term Treasury securities and mortgage-backed securities, but they remained elevated compared with the very low levels of the third quarter of 2016. Consistent with these developments, refinance originations slowed considerably since the third quarter. In the April SLOOS, banks reported roughly unchanged standards on residential real estate (RRE) loans on average. Banks also reported that demand for some categories of RRE loans weakened during the first quarter, including those insured or guaranteed by government agencies. In line with lower reported demand, growth in RRE loans on banks' balance sheets declined.

Financing conditions in consumer credit markets remained accommodative, on balance, in early 2017. Consumer credit appeared to be broadly available even as interest rates charged on credit card balances and new auto loans drifted up in line with their benchmark shorter-term interest rates. Growth in consumer loan balances moderated a bit further from the relatively strong pace seen during the past few years, although year-over-year growth in credit card balances, student loans, and auto loans stayed in the 6 to 7 percent range through February. In the April SLOOS, banks reported tightening standards on auto loans and easing standards on credit card loans; banks also reported facing weaker demand for both auto and credit card loans.

Over the intermeeting period, movements in foreign financial markets were driven by central bank communications in the United States and abroad, geopolitical risks, and changes in investors' perceptions about future U.S. fiscal and other government policies. Concerns about the outcome of the French presidential election and tensions in the Korean peninsula pushed down 10‑year sovereign yields in the advanced economies for several weeks. Sentiment improved following the outcome of the first round of the French presidential election on April 23, which led to a partial retracement in yields. At their meetings on April 27, the European Central Bank and the Bank of Japan each left their policy stance unchanged. On net, foreign yields declined somewhat less than U.S. yields, contributing to a modest depreciation of the dollar against both the AFE and EME currencies. Equity indexes in most advanced and emerging economies rose. Flows to emerging market mutual funds remained strong, and spreads on emerging market debt were little changed.

The staff provided its latest report on the potential risks to financial stability; it continued to characterize the financial vulnerabilities of the U.S. financial system as moderate on balance. This overall assessment reflected the staff's judgment that leverage as well as vulnerabilities from maturity and liquidity transformation in the financial sector were low, that leverage in the nonfinancial sector was moderate, and that asset valuation pressures in some markets were notable. Although these assessments were unchanged from January's assessment, vulnerabilities appeared to have increased for asset valuation pressures, though not by enough to warrant raising the assessment of these vulnerabilities to elevated.