The manager of the System Open Market Account (SOMA) reported on developments in domestic and foreign financial markets over the period since the March FOMC meeting. Yields on U.S. Treasury securities declined, and the broad index of the foreign exchange value of the dollar fell modestly. These changes reportedly reflected revisions to investors' expectations for fiscal and other economic policies; some increase in geopolitical tensions; economic and inflation indicators that, on balance, were weaker than anticipated; and monetary policy communications. In response to political developments abroad, spreads on some European sovereign debt securities narrowed noticeably. Measures of implied volatility in equity markets declined, on net, to levels that were historically very low. Market pricing and survey evidence indicated that investors anticipated no change in the target range for the federal funds rate at this meeting but saw a substantial probability of an increase at the June FOMC meeting; market expectations for the path of the federal funds rate further ahead fell somewhat. Federal funds continued to trade well within the FOMC's target range. Reinvestment of principal payments from Treasury and mortgage-backed securities held in the SOMA proceeded smoothly. The manager updated the Committee on various small-value tests of System operations.

The manager also briefed the Committee on developments regarding certain reference interest rates. Changes in the practices of some domestic and foreign banks for booking certain types of liabilities, as well as the effects of recent changes in the regulation of money market funds, had resulted in a reduction in the volume of Eurodollar transactions reported on the Federal Reserve's Report of Selected Money Market Rates (FR 2420). The staff was in the process of analyzing possible revisions to the report that would guard against a further erosion of reported transactions and support the robustness of the overnight bank funding rate calculated by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Such revisions might be implemented in conjunction with the periodic renewal of authorization for the report, which is expected to be completed by the third quarter of 2018. The manager also noted that aspects of plans to publish reference interest rates for market repurchase agreements (repos) were being modified to incorporate a newly available source of data on cleared bilateral repo transactions; the modifications were expected to extend the time frame for publication of the new rates by several months.

The Committee voted unanimously to renew the reciprocal currency arrangements with the Bank of Canada and the Bank of Mexico; these arrangements are associated with the Federal Reserve's participation in the North American Framework Agreement of 1994. In addition, the Committee voted unanimously to renew the dollar and foreign currency liquidity swap arrangements with the Bank of Canada, the Bank of England, the Bank of Japan, the European Central Bank, and the Swiss National Bank. The votes to renew the Federal Reserve's participation in these standing arrangements are taken annually at the April or May FOMC meeting.

By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Desk's domestic transactions over the intermeeting period. There were no intervention operations in foreign currencies for the System's account during the intermeeting period.