The information reviewed at this meeting suggested that the economy continued to expand at a subpar pace in recent months. Consumer spending increased moderately, housing activity held at a high level, and government outlays grew substantially. Business investment, however, was still soft. Industrial production and employment appeared to have stabilized after an extended period of weakness. Consumer price inflation remained at a very low level.

Private nonfarm payrolls changed little on balance in April and May after declines earlier in the year. Although employment in manufacturing continued to fall in May, hiring in temporary help services, which supplies many of its workers to manufacturing, picked up noticeably. Construction and financial services continued to add jobs. Unemployment edged up further in May, to 6.1 percent, and the number of both short-term job losers and longer-term unemployed increased as well. Initial claims for unemployment insurance remained high.

Industrial production increased slightly in May after sizable declines in the preceding two months. The manufacturing sector recorded broad-based improvement, though automobile assemblies and the output of communications equipment continued to slide. The effects of strength in the mining sector on the industrial production index were more than offset by a reduction in utility output. Overall capacity utilization remained very low, with manufacturing utilization near a twenty-year low.

Real consumer outlays, excluding cars and trucks, were flat in April but turned up in May. Spending on motor vehicles rose over the two months from the first-quarter pace. At the same time, the fundamentals underlying household spending became more favorable: Real disposable income posted solid gains, and both the stock market and consumer confidence recovered from earlier in the year.

Activity in the housing market was reasonably well maintained in April and May. Despite unusually wet weather in many areas, starts of single-family and multifamily units in the two months were just a little below their strong first-quarter levels. Building permits for new single-family and multifamily homes were up from a depressed March level. Sales of both existing and new homes in April and May were above the high levels recorded in recent quarters.

Orders and shipments of nondefense capital goods were lackluster in April and May. This sluggish performance followed a first-quarter decline in real outlays on equipment and software that had more than reversed the fourth-quarter gains. Excluding purchases of transportation equipment, however, outlays grew a bit over the first quarter. Real investment in nonresidential structures dropped further in that quarter, though the rate of decline slowed. Outlays for office buildings and industrial structures were down sharply, and falling rents and rising vacancy rates in April suggested further weakness in the second quarter.

The book value of manufacturing inventories rose moderately further in the first quarter and in April. Relative to shipments and sales, inventories of manufacturers, wholesalers, and retailers have remained at quite low levels thus far this year.

The U.S. trade deficit in goods and services edged up in April from the first-quarter rate. Real GDP growth in the major foreign industrial countries remained weak in the first quarter as external demand sagged amid heightened geopolitical uncertainties. Real GDP growth continued to slow in the first quarter in Japan and the United Kingdom, and economic activity in the euro area was flat. By contrast, economic activity accelerated in Canada in the first quarter.

Sharp declines in energy prices pulled down overall consumer prices in April and May, but core consumer prices edged up. On a year-over-year basis, however, core consumer price inflation eased noticeably. Core producer price inflation also declined over the year ending in May. With regard to labor costs, average hourly earnings of production or nonsupervisory workers were flat in April and increased moderately in May. The twelve-month change was somewhat above that for the year earlier.