At its May 6, 2003, meeting the Federal Open Market Committee adopted a directive that called for maintaining conditions in reserve markets consistent with keeping the federal funds rate at around 1-1/4 percent. The Committee discussed a post-meeting release to the press stating that over the next few quarters the upside and downside risks to the attainment of sustainable growth were roughly equal, but that, in contrast, over the same period the probability of an unwelcome substantial fall in inflation, though minor, exceeded that of a pickup in inflation from its already low level. The Committee also agreed to a statement that, taken together, the balance of risks to achieving its goals was weighted toward weakness over the foreseeable future. The Committee noted that, while the geopolitical tensions that had inhibited economic expansion in earlier months appeared to have diminished, the timing and extent of an improving economic performance could not be reliably ascertained. In the current circumstances, the members concluded the prudent course was to maintain a steady policy stance, a high degree of vigilance, and a readiness to respond promptly as needed to the emergence of clearer evidence relating to the performance of the economy.

The Committee's decision at the May meeting relating to the federal funds rate was not a surprise to most market participants. However, splitting the balance of risks statement into separate assessments about growth and inflation, in addition to noting a concern about a further possible decline of inflation from an already low level, led market participants to mark down their expectations for the federal funds rate. Consistent with those expectations, Treasury coupon yields declined 35 to 60 basis points. Yields on corporate bonds also fell about in line with rates on Treasuries even though capital markets absorbed a surge in bond issuance by highly rated firms. Equity prices, buoyed by the decline in bond yields as well as the improved outlook for economic growth, registered sizable gains over the intermeeting period.

The dollar continued to depreciate in terms of an index of major foreign currencies amid growing concerns about the financing burden of the large and growing U.S. current account deficit and questions by market participants about the commitment of U.S authorities to a "strong dollar" policy. Long-term interest rates fell in all major industrial economies, while equity prices rose substantially.

Growth of M2 surged in May. At least part of the acceleration was due to special factors related to strong mortgage refinancing activity and to the flow of funds associated with tax payments.