The Manager of the System Open Market Account (SOMA) reported on developments in domestic and foreign financial markets during the period since the Committee met on April 27-28, 2010. He also briefed the Committee on the System's progress in developing tools for managing the supply of reserves, including reverse repurchase agreements and the Term Deposit Facility. In preparation for possible future reserve draining operations, in June the Federal Reserve conducted the first of several small-value auctions to test the Term Deposit Facility. In addition, the Manager reported on System open market operations during the intermeeting period. By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified those transactions. There were no open market operations in foreign currencies for the System's account over the intermeeting period.

In his presentation to the Committee, the Manager noted that "fails to deliver" in the mortgage-backed securities (MBS) market had reached very high levels in recent months. Under these conditions, dealers had experienced difficulty in arranging delivery of a small amount--including about $9 billion of securities with 5.5 percent coupons issued by Fannie Mae--of the $1.25 trillion of MBS that the Desk at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York had purchased between January 2009 and March 2010. The Desk had postponed settlement of some of these transactions through the use of dollar rolls. The Manager discussed alternative methods of settling the outstanding transactions and recommended that the Committee authorize the Desk to engage in coupon swap transactions to facilitate the settlement of these purchases. The Manager noted that a coupon swap is a common transaction in the market for MBS in which the two counterparties exchange securities at market prices. By engaging in a coupon swap, the Federal Reserve would effectively sell the scarce securities that it had not yet received and purchase instead securities that are more readily available in the market. After discussing various approaches, meeting participants agreed that coupon swaps were an appropriate method to achieve settlement of outstanding transactions.

As background for the Committee's continuing consideration of its portfolio management policies, the Manager gave a presentation on alternative strategies for reinvesting the proceeds from maturing Treasury securities. Under current practice, the Desk reinvests the proceeds of maturing Treasury coupon securities in new Treasury securities that are issued on the date the older securities mature, allocating the investments across the new securities in proportion to the issuance amounts. The Manager presented two alternatives to the status quo. First, the Committee could consider halting all reinvestment of the proceeds of maturing securities. Such a strategy would shrink the size of the Federal Reserve's balance sheet and reduce the quantity of reserve balances in the banking system gradually over time. Second, the Committee could reinvest the proceeds of maturing securities only in new issues of Treasury securities with relatively short maturities--bills only, or bills as well as coupon issues with terms of three years or less. This strategy would maintain the size of the Federal Reserve's balance sheet but would reduce somewhat the average maturity of the portfolio and increase its liquidity. One participant favored halting all reinvestment, and many saw benefits to eventually adopting an approach of reinvesting in bills and shorter-term coupon issues to shift the maturity composition of the portfolio toward the structure that had prevailed prior to the financial crisis. However, the Committee made no change to its reinvestment policy at this meeting.

Continuing a discussion from previous meetings, participants again addressed issues regarding asset sales. Participants continued to agree that gradual sales of MBS should be undertaken, at some point, to speed the return to a Treasury-securities-only portfolio. A few participants supported beginning such sales fairly soon; they noted that, given the evident demand in the market for safe, longer-term assets, modest sales of MBS might not put much, if any, upward pressure on long-term interest rates or be disruptive to the functioning of financial markets. However, many participants still saw asset sales as potentially tightening financial conditions to some extent. Most participants continued to judge it appropriate to defer asset sales for some time; several noted the modest weakening in the economic outlook since the Committee's last meeting as an additional reason to do so. A majority of participants continued to anticipate that asset sales would start after the Committee had begun to firm policy by increasing short-term interest rates; such an approach would postpone asset sales until the economic recovery was well established and maintain short-term interest rates as the Committee's key monetary policy tool. A few participants suggested selling MBS and using the proceeds to purchase Treasury securities of comparable duration, arguing that doing so would hasten the move toward a Treasury-securities-only portfolio without tightening financial conditions. Participants agreed that it would be important to maintain flexibility regarding the appropriate timing and pace of asset sales, given the uncertainties associated with the unprecedented size and composition of the Federal Reserve's balance sheet and its effects on financial conditions. Overall, participants emphasized that any decision to engage in asset sales would need to be communicated well in advance of the initiation of such transactions, and that sales should be conducted at a gradual pace and potentially be adjusted in response to developments in economic and financial conditions.