The FOMC's decision at its April meeting to maintain the 0 to 1/4 percent target range for the federal funds rate and the wording of the accompanying statement were largely in line with expectations and prompted little market reaction. Economic data releases were mixed, on balance, over the intermeeting period, but market participants were especially attentive to incoming information on the labor market--most notably, the private payroll figures in the employment report for May, which were considerably weaker than investors expected. Those data, combined with heightened concerns about the global economic outlook stemming in part from Europe's sovereign debt problems, contributed to a downward revision in the expected path of policy implied by money market futures rates.

In the market for Treasury coupon securities, 2- and 10-year nominal yields fell considerably over the intermeeting period. Market participants pointed to flight-to-quality flows and greater concern about the economic outlook as factors boosting the demand for Treasury securities. The drop in Treasury yields was accompanied by a small widening of swap spreads.

Conditions in short-term funding markets deteriorated somewhat, particularly for European financial institutions. Spreads of the term London interbank offered rate, or Libor, over rates on overnight index swaps widened noticeably, with the availability of funding at maturities longer than one week reportedly quite limited. Market participants also reduced holdings of commercial paper sponsored by entities thought to have exposures to peripheral European financial institutions and governments. Even so, spreads of high-grade unsecured financial commercial paper to nonfinancial commercial paper widened only modestly over the intermeeting period. In secured funding markets, spreads on asset-backed commercial paper also widened modestly, while rates on repurchase agreements involving Treasury and agency collateral changed little. In the inaugural Senior Credit Officer Opinion Survey on Dealer Financing Terms, which was conducted by the Federal Reserve between May 24 and June 4, dealers generally reported that the terms on which they provided credit remained tight relative to those at the end of 2006. However, they noted some loosening of terms for both securities financing and over-the-counter derivatives transactions, on net, over the previous three months for certain classes of clients--including hedge funds, institutional investors, and nonfinancial corporations--and intensified efforts by those clients to negotiate more-favorable terms. At the same time, they reported a pickup in demand for financing across several collateral types over the past three months.

Broad U.S. stock price indexes fell over the intermeeting period, in part reflecting deepening concerns about the European fiscal situation and its potential for adverse spillovers to global economic growth. Option-implied volatility on the S&P 500 index spiked in mid-May, to more than double its value at the time of the April FOMC meeting, but largely reversed its run-up by the time of the June meeting. The spread between the staff's estimate of the expected real return on equities over the next 10 years and an estimate of the expected real return on a 10-year Treasury note--a measure of the equity risk premium--increased from its already elevated level.

Investors' attitudes toward financial institutions deteriorated somewhat, as the equity of financial firms underperformed the broader market amid uncertainty about the implications of developments in Europe and the potential effects of financial regulatory reform. Yields on investment- and speculative-grade corporate bonds moved higher over the intermeeting period, and high-yield bond mutual funds recorded substantial net outflows. Spreads on corporate bonds widened, although they remained within the range prevailing since last summer. Secondary-market bid prices on syndicated leveraged loans fell, while bid-asked spreads in that market widened.

Net debt financing by nonfinancial corporations increased in April and May relative to its pace in the first quarter. Gross bond issuance by investment-grade nonfinancial corporations in the United States remained solid, on average, over those two months; nonfinancial commercial paper outstanding increased as well. High-yield corporate bond issuance in the United States briefly paused in May, reflecting the market's pullback from risky assets, although speculative-grade U.S. firms continued to issue bonds abroad and a few placed issues domestically in the first half of June. Gross equity issuance fell a bit, on net, in April and May, likely due in part to recent declines in equity prices and elevated market volatility. Measures of the credit quality of nonfinancial firms generally continued to improve, and first-quarter profits for firms in the S&P 500 jumped substantially, primarily reflecting an upturn in financial sector profits from quite depressed levels. The outlook in commercial real estate markets stayed weak; prices of commercial properties fell a bit further in the first quarter, and the volume of commercial property sales remained light. The delinquency rate for securitized commercial mortgages continued to climb in May, and indexes of prices of credit default swaps on commercial mortgages declined, on net, over the intermeeting period.

Consumer credit contracted again in recent months, as revolving credit continued on a steep downtrend. Issuance of consumer credit asset-backed securities (ABS) increased in May, although the pace was still well below that observed before the onset of the financial crisis. Credit card ABS issuance remained subdued, partly reflecting regulatory changes that made financing credit card receivables via securitization less desirable. In primary markets, spreads of credit card interest rates over those on Treasury securities remained extremely high in April, while interest rate spreads on auto loans stayed near their average level of the past decade. Consumer credit quality improved further, with delinquency rates on credit cards and auto loans moving down a bit in April.

Bank credit declined, on average, in April and May at about the same pace as in the first quarter. Commercial and industrial loans, after dropping rapidly in April, decreased at a slower pace in May. While commercial real estate and home equity loans fell at a slightly faster rate than in recent quarters, the contraction in closed-end residential loans abated, partly because of a reduced pace of sales to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Consumer loans declined again, on average, in April and May. The amount of Treasury and agency securities held by large domestic banks and foreign-related institutions declined in May, contributing to a sizable drop in banks' securities holdings.

On a seasonally adjusted basis, M2 contracted in April but surged in May, with much of the month-to-month variation apparently associated with the effects of federal tax payments and refunds. Averaging across the two months, M2 expanded moderately after having been about unchanged in the first quarter; liquid deposits accounted for most of the net change.

The threat to global economic growth and financial stability posed by the fiscal situation in some European nations sparked widespread flight-to-quality flows over most of the intermeeting period. This retreat led to a broad appreciation of the dollar as well as declines in equity prices abroad and in yields on benchmark sovereign bonds. However, investor sentiment improved near the end of the period, leading to a partial reversal in some of these movements, despite Moody's downgrade of Greece to below-investment-grade status in mid-June. On net, the dollar ended the intermeeting period up, most headline equity indexes fell, and benchmark government bond yields declined. Strains in euro-area bank funding markets reemerged during the period. In response, the ECB announced some changes to its liquidity operations that would provide greater market access to term funding in euros. 3 Difficulties also appeared in corporate debt markets as both nonfinancial and financial corporate debt issuance dropped substantially in May. In addition, pressures in dollar funding markets reappeared for foreign financial institutions, especially those thought to have significant exposure to Greece and other peripheral euro-area countries. To help contain these pressures and to prevent their spread to other institutions and regions, the Federal Reserve reestablished dollar liquidity swap arrangements with the ECB, the Bank of England, the Bank of Japan, the Bank of Canada, and the Swiss National Bank.

Yields on the sovereign obligations of peripheral European countries declined noticeably following a May 10 announcement of a framework established by the EU for providing financial aid to euro-area governments and of the ECB's intention to purchase euro-area sovereign debt. However, yields remained high even after these announcements and moved up subsequently, notwithstanding the ECB's purchases of government debt. Amid a weakening outlook for economic growth in Europe, central banks in several emerging European economies began to decrease policy rates. By contrast, brighter economic prospects in Canada and China prompted the Bank of Canada to raise its target for the overnight rate to 50 basis points at its June meeting and Chinese authorities to raise banks' reserve requirement further in May. In addition, the People's Bank of China announced late in the period that it would allow the renminbi to move more flexibly, and the currency appreciated slightly immediately following the announcement.