In conjunction with this FOMC meeting, all meeting participants--the five members of the Board of Governors and the presidents of the 12 Federal Reserve Banks--provided projections of economic growth, the unemployment rate, and consumer price inflation for each year from 2010 through 2012 and over a longer horizon. Longer-run projections represent each participant's assessment of the rate to which each variable would be expected to converge over time under appropriate monetary policy and in the absence of further shocks. Participants' forecasts through 2012 and over the longer run are described in the Summary of Economic Projections, which is attached as an addendum to these minutes.

In their discussion of the economic situation and outlook, meeting participants generally saw the incoming data and information received from business contacts as consistent with a continued, moderate recovery in economic activity. Participants noted that the labor market was improving gradually, household spending was increasing, and business spending on equipment and software had risen significantly. With private final demand having strengthened, inventory adjustments and fiscal stimulus were no longer the main factors supporting economic expansion. In light of stable inflation expectations and incoming data indicating low rates of inflation, policymakers continued to anticipate that both overall and core inflation would remain subdued through 2012. However, financial markets were generally seen as recently having become less supportive of economic growth, largely reflecting international spillovers from European fiscal strains. In part as a result of the change in financial conditions, most participants revised down slightly their outlook for economic growth, and about one-half of the participants judged the balance of risks to growth as having moved to the downside. Most participants continued to see the risks to inflation as balanced. A number of participants expressed the view that, over the next several years, both employment and inflation would likely be below levels they consider to be consistent with their dual mandate, but they anticipated that, with appropriate monetary policy, both would rise over time to levels consistent with the Federal Reserve's objectives.

Financial markets had become somewhat less supportive of economic growth since the April meeting, with the developments in Europe cited as a leading cause of greater global financial market tensions. Risk spreads for many corporate borrowers had widened noticeably, equity prices had fallen appreciably, and the dollar had risen in value against a broad basket of other currencies. Participants saw these changes as likely to weigh to some degree on household and business spending over coming quarters. Participants also noted ongoing difficulties in financing commercial real estate. Nonetheless, reports suggested that more-creditworthy business borrowers were still able to obtain funding in the open markets on fairly attractive terms, and a couple of participants noted that credit from the banking sector, which had been contracting for some time, was showing some tentative signs of stabilizing. Moreover, several participants observed that the decline in yields on Treasury securities resulting from the global flight to quality was positive for the domestic economy; in particular, the associated decline in mortgage rates was seen as potentially helpful in supporting the housing sector.

Supporting the view of a continued recovery, incoming data and anecdotal reports pointed to strength in a number of business sectors, particularly manufacturing and transportation. Policymakers noted that firms' investment in equipment and software had advanced rapidly of late, and they anticipated that such spending would continue to rise, though perhaps at a somewhat slower pace. Business contacts suggested that investment spending had been supported by the replacement and upgrading of existing capital, making up for some spending that had been postponed in the downturn, and this component of investment demand was seen as unlikely to remain robust. In addition, inventory accumulation, which had been a significant contributor to recent gains in production, appeared likely to provide less impetus to growth in coming quarters. Participants also noted that several uncertainties, including those related to legislative changes and to developments in global financial markets, were generating a heightened level of caution that could lead some firms to delay hiring and planned investment outlays.

Participants commented that household spending continued to advance, with notable increases in auto sales and expenditures on other durable goods. Going forward, consumption spending was expected to continue to post moderate gains, with the effects of income growth and improved confidence as the economy recovers more than offsetting the effects of lower stock prices and housing wealth. However, continued labor market weakness could weigh on consumer sentiment, and households were still repairing their balance sheets; both factors could restrain consumer spending going forward. Although readings from the housing sector had been strong through mid-spring, participants noted that the strength likely reflected the effects of the temporary tax credits for homebuyers. Indeed, data for the most recent month suggested that, with the expiration of those provisions, home sales and starts had stepped down noticeably and could remain weak in the near term; with lower demand and a continuing supply of foreclosed houses coming to market, participants judged that house prices were likely to remain flat or decline somewhat further in the near term.

Meeting participants interpreted the data on the labor market as consistent with their outlook for gradual recovery. Employers were adding hours to the workweek and hiring temporary workers, suggesting a pickup in labor demand; however, the most recent data on employment had been disappointing, and new claims for unemployment insurance remained elevated. Reportedly, employers were still cautious about adding to payrolls, given uncertainties about the outlook for the economy and government policies. Participants expected the pace of hiring to remain low for some time. Indeed, the unemployment rate was generally expected to remain noticeably above its long-run sustainable level for several years, and participants expressed concern about the extended duration of unemployment spells for a large number of workers. Participants also noted a risk that continued rapid growth in productivity, though clearly beneficial in the longer term, could in the near term act to moderate growth in the demand for labor and thus slow the pace at which the unemployment rate normalizes.

A broad set of indicators suggested that underlying inflation remained subdued and was, on net, trending lower. The latest readings on core inflation--which excludes the relatively volatile prices of food and energy--had slowed, and other measures of the underlying trajectory of inflation, such as median and trimmed-mean measures, also had moved down this year. Crude oil prices declined somewhat over the intermeeting period, a factor that was likely to damp headline inflation at the consumer level in coming months. Other commodity prices were moderating, and nominal wages appeared to be rising only slowly. Some participants indicated that they viewed the substantial slack in labor and resource markets as likely to reduce inflation. The financial strains in Europe had led to an increase in the foreign exchange value of the dollar, and the resulting downward pressure on import prices also was expected to weigh on consumer prices for a time. However, inflation expectations were seen by most participants as well anchored, which would tend to curb any tendency for actual inflation to decline. On balance, meeting participants revised down modestly their outlook for inflation over the next couple of years; they generally expected inflation to be quite low in the near term and to trend slightly higher over time.

Some participants judged the risks to the outlook for inflation as tilted to the downside, particularly in the near term, in light of the large amount of resource slack already prevailing in the economy, the significant downside risks to the outlook for real activity, and the possibility that inflation expectations could begin to decline in response to low actual inflation. A few participants cited some risk of deflation. Other participants, however, thought that inflation was unlikely to fall appreciably further given the stability of inflation expectations in recent years and very accommodative monetary policy. Over the medium term, participants saw both upside and downside risks to inflation. Several participants noted that a continuation of lower-than-expected inflation and high unemployment could eventually lead to a downward movement in inflation expectations that would reinforce disinflationary pressures. By contrast, a few participants noted the possibility that a potentially unsustainable fiscal position and the size of the Federal Reserve's balance sheet could boost inflation expectations and actual inflation over time.