The information reviewed at the June 22-23 meeting suggested that the economic recovery was proceeding at a moderate pace in the second quarter. Businesses continued to increase employment and lengthen workweeks in April and May, but the unemployment rate remained elevated. Industrial production registered strong and widespread gains, and business investment in equipment and software rose rapidly. Consumer spending appeared to have moved up further in April and May. However, housing starts dropped in May, and nonresidential construction remained depressed. Falling energy prices held down headline consumer prices in April and May while core consumer prices edged up.

Labor demand continued to firm in recent months. While the change in total nonfarm payroll employment in May was boosted significantly by the hiring of temporary workers for the decennial census, private employment posted only a small increase. This increase, however, followed sizable gains in March and April, and the average workweek of all private-sector employees increased over the March-to-May period. As a result, aggregate hours worked by employees on private nonfarm payrolls rose substantially through May. The unemployment rate moved up in April but dropped back in May to 9.7 percent, its first-quarter average. The labor force participation rate was, on average, higher in recent months than in the first quarter, as rising employment was accompanied by an increasing number of jobseekers. Although the number of workers who were employed part time for economic reasons leveled off in recent months, the proportion of unemployed workers who were jobless for more than 26 weeks continued to move up. Initial claims for unemployment insurance were little changed over the intermeeting period, remaining at a still-elevated level.

Industrial production rose at a robust rate in April and May, with production increases broadly based across industries. Firming domestic demand, rising exports, and business inventory restocking appeared to have provided upward impetus to factory production. In April and May, production in high-technology industries again rose strongly, with substantial gains in the output of semiconductors and further solid increases in the production of computers and communications equipment. The production of other types of business equipment continued to rebound, and the output of construction supplies advanced further. Production of light motor vehicles turned up in May; nonetheless, dealers' inventories remained lean. Capacity utilization in manufacturing rose in May to a rate noticeably above the low reached in mid-2009, but it was still substantially below its longer-run average.

The rise in consumer spending slowed in recent months after a brisk increase in the first quarter. Although sales of light motor vehicles continued to trend higher, nominal sales of non-auto consumer goods and food services were little changed in April and May. The moderation in spending appeared, on balance, to be aligning the pace of consumption with recent trends in income, wealth, and consumer sentiment. Real disposable personal income moved up at a solid rate in March and April, reflecting increases in employment and hours worked as well as slightly higher real wages, but home values declined in recent months and equity prices moved down since the April meeting. Measures of consumer sentiment improved in May and early June but were still at relatively low levels.

The anticipated expiration of the homebuyer tax credit appeared to have pulled home sales forward, boosting their level in recent months. Sales of existing single-family homes rose strongly in April, and, although they moved down in May, these sales were still above their level earlier in the year. Purchases of new single-family homes also jumped in April, but then fell steeply in May. On net, the upswing in the volume of real estate transactions in recent months was likely to boost the brokers' commissions component of residential investment in the second quarter. However, starts of new single-family homes, which had trended higher in the first four months of the year, declined sharply in May. In addition, the number of permits for new homes, which tends to lead starts, fell for a second month in May. House prices declined somewhat in recent months, reversing some of the modest increases that occurred in the spring and summer of 2009. After changing little on net during the preceding year, interest rates for 30-year fixed-rate conforming mortgages moved lower in May and June.

Real spending on equipment and software increased further early in the second quarter. Business outlays for computing equipment and software continued to rise at a brisk pace through April, and shipments of aircraft to domestic carriers rebounded. Orders and shipments of nondefense capital goods excluding transportation and high-tech equipment stayed on a noticeable uptrend, on net, in March and April, with the increases broadly based by type of equipment. The recovery in equipment and software spending was consistent with the relatively strong gains in production in recent months, improved financial conditions over the first part of the year, and the positive readings from surveys on business conditions and earnings reports for producers of capital goods. Business outlays for nonresidential construction appeared to be contracting further, on balance, in March and April, although the rate of decline seemed to be moderating. Outlays for new power plants and for manufacturing facilities firmed, and investment in drilling and mining structures continued to rise strongly. However, spending on office and commercial structures was still falling steeply through April, with the weakness likely related to high vacancy rates, falling property prices, and the light volume of sales.

Businesses appeared to have begun to restock their inventories. Real nonfarm inventory investment turned positive in the first quarter, and data for April pointed to further modest accumulation. Ratios of inventories to sales for most industries looked to be within comfortable ranges.

Consumer price inflation remained low in April and May. The core consumer price index rose only slightly over the period, and the year-over-year change in the index was lower than earlier this year. Core goods prices continued to decline, on net, and prices of non-energy services remained soft. The headline consumer price index edged down in both months, as the drop in the price of crude oil since April led consumer energy prices to retrace a portion of the run-up that occurred during the nine months ending in January. At earlier stages of processing, producer prices of core intermediate materials rose moderately in May after five months of large increases. Inflation compensation based on Treasury inflation-protected securities decreased recently in response to low readings on inflation and falling oil prices. Survey measures of both short- and long-term inflation expectations remained relatively stable.

Unit labor costs continued to be restrained by weakness in hourly compensation and further gains in productivity. Revised estimates of labor compensation indicated that hourly compensation in the nonfarm business sector was about flat, on net, during the fourth quarter of 2009 and the first quarter of 2010. The employment cost index showed a moderate rise over the period, boosted by a sizable increase in benefit costs in the first quarter. The year-over-year increase in average hourly earnings of all employees was also moderate through May. Output per hour in the nonfarm business sector, which rose rapidly in 2009, posted a more moderate but still-solid gain in the first quarter of 2010.

The U.S. international trade deficit widened slightly in April, as nominal exports fell a bit more than nominal imports. The April declines in both exports and imports followed robust increases in March. The April fall in exports reflected declines in exports of consumer goods, primarily due to a drop in pharmaceuticals, and in agricultural goods. Exports of industrial supplies moved up while exports of capital goods were flat after increasing strongly in March. Imports in April were pulled down by lower imports of consumer goods, which more than offset sharply higher imports of capital goods, particularly computing equipment. Imports of automotive products and non-oil industrial supplies declined slightly, and imports of petroleum products were flat following a large increase in March.

Incoming data suggested that economic activity abroad continued to expand at a strong pace in the first half of the year. Among the advanced foreign economies, growth of real gross domestic product (GDP) in the first quarter was particularly strong in Canada and Japan, and recent indicators for those countries pointed to continued solid increases in the second quarter. In contrast, the rise in economic activity in the euro area was subdued, as favorable readings for the manufacturing sector were counterbalanced by weakness in domestic demand. Since the time of the April meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC), concerns about the fiscal situation of several euro-area countries intensified sharply. In response, European authorities announced a number of policy measures, including acceleration of fiscal consolidation plans in some countries, finalization of an International Monetary Fund (IMF) and European Union (EU) assistance package for Greece, and the introduction of a broader €500 billion financial assistance program that could be complemented by bilateral IMF lending. The European Central Bank (ECB) also announced further measures to improve liquidity conditions in impaired markets, including a program to purchase sovereign and private debt.

Economic activity in emerging market economies continued to expand briskly in the first half of this year. Growth of economic activity was particularly robust in emerging Asia, driven in part by strong increases in industrial production and exports associated with solid gains in final demand as well as the turn in the inventory cycle. The rise of real GDP in Latin America appeared to have stalled in the first quarter, but this development reflected a contraction in Mexico that more-favorable monthly indicators suggested should prove temporary. In contrast, the increase in Brazilian real GDP was very strong. Consumer price inflation in the foreign economies in aggregate was buoyed by higher food and energy prices in the first quarter, while core inflation generally remained subdued. More recent information suggested some moderation in foreign inflation in the second quarter.