The Manager of the System Open Market Account reported on recent developments in domestic and foreign financial markets. The Manager also reported on System open market operations in Treasury securities, agency debt, and agency mortgage-backed securities (MBS) since the Committee's June 23-24 meeting. By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified those transactions. There were no open market operations in foreign currencies for the System's account during the intermeeting period. The Federal Reserve's total assets were about unchanged, on balance, since the Committee met in June, remaining at approximately $2 trillion as the System's purchases of securities were essentially matched by a further decline in usage of the System's credit and liquidity facilities.

Meeting participants again discussed the merits of including agency MBS backed by adjustable-rate mortgages (ARMs) in the Committee's MBS purchase program: Some thought it would be useful to include agency ARM MBS, noting that doing so could reduce the unusually large spreads between ARM rates and yields on similar-duration Treasury securities--spreads that were far larger than the comparable spreads on fixed-rate mortgages; others saw little potential benefit, given the small stock and limited issuance of ARM MBS, and were hesitant to involve the Federal Reserve in another market segment. The Committee made no decision on purchasing ARM MBS at this meeting. Participants also discussed the merits of progressively reducing the pace at which the Federal Reserve buys Treasury securities, agency debt, and agency MBS prior to the end of the asset purchase programs. They generally were of the view that gradually slowing the pace of the Committee's purchases of $300 billion of Treasury securities and extending their completion to the end of October could help promote a smooth transition in markets. A number of participants noted that a similar tapering of agency debt and MBS purchases could be helpful in the future as those programs approach completion. The Committee made no decisions on tapering those purchases at this meeting.

The staff presented an update on the continuing development of several tools that could help support a smooth withdrawal of policy accommodation at the appropriate time. These measures include executing reverse repurchase agreements on a large scale, potentially with counterparties other than the primary dealers; implementing a term deposit facility that would be available to depository institutions in order to reduce the supply of excess reserves; and taking steps to tighten the link between the interest rate paid on reserve balances held at the Federal Reserve Banks and the federal funds rate. Several participants noted the need to continue refining the Committee's strategy for an eventual withdrawal of policy accommodation. The staff also updated the Committee on developments in the Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF), summarized the pros and cons of expanding the range of collateral eligible for TALF loans, and recommended extending the final date for making new TALF loans into 2010. Participants generally supported the extension of TALF into 2010 but were skeptical about expanding the range of assets at this time.

Secretary's note: As announced on August 17, 2009, the Board of Governors subsequently approved an extension of the TALF while holding in abeyance any further expansion in the types of collateral eligible for the TALF.