The information reviewed at the August 11-12 meeting suggested that overall economic activity was stabilizing after a contraction in real gross domestic product (GDP) during 2008 and early 2009 that the Bureau of Economic Analysis recently reported to have been greater than it had previously estimated. Employment continued to move lower through July, but the pace of job losses had slowed noticeably in recent months. A sizable pickup in motor vehicle production appeared to be under way. Housing activity apparently was beginning to turn up. Consumer spending dropped only a little further in the first half of this year, on balance, after falling sharply in the second half of last year. The decline in equipment and software (E&S) investment seemed to be moderating, although the incoming data did not point to an imminent recovery. The sharp cuts in production this year reduced inventory stocks significantly, though they remained high relative to the level of sales. A jump in gasoline prices pushed up overall consumer price inflation in June, but core consumer price inflation remained relatively stable in recent months.

Job losses continued to abate in July, and aggregate hours of production and nonsupervisory workers were unchanged. The step-up in motor vehicle assemblies boosted employment in that industry; job losses decreased in a number of other manufacturing industries, and factory workweeks generally rose. Employment declines in business and financial services in July were also smaller than those in recent months. Payrolls in nonbusiness services posted their third monthly gain, supported by the continued uptrend in health and education and a small gain in the leisure and hospitality industry. However, job losses in the construction industry continued at about the recent rate. In the household survey, the unemployment rate edged down in July to 9.4 percent, while the labor force participation rate fell back to its March level. Other indicators also suggested a reduced pace of deterioration in labor demand. Both initial claims for unemployment insurance and insured unemployment moved down since June. However, with labor markets still quite slack, year-over-year growth in average hourly earnings of production and nonsupervisory workers slowed further in July.

The contraction in industrial production slowed markedly in the second quarter, although the rate of decline remained rapid and the factory utilization rate recorded a new low in June. The moderation in the pace of decline in industrial production in the second quarter was widespread across industries and major market groups. Available indicators suggested that industrial production increased noticeably in July, led by motor vehicle assemblies; manufacturing output excluding motor vehicles likely also rose in July.

Real personal consumption expenditures (PCE) edged down in June after holding steady in May and declining in April. Apart from a jump in motor vehicle purchases, which were boosted appreciably by the government's "cash-for-clunkers" program, indicators of consumer spending in July were mixed. Most determinants of spending remained weak on balance. In particular, the weak labor market continued to place significant strains on household income, and earlier declines in net worth were still holding back spending. However, household net worth received a boost from the rise in equity prices since their low in March. In addition, the July Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices indicated that the fraction of banks tightening standards and terms for consumer credit had diminished further. Moreover, measures of consumer sentiment, though they recently retraced a portion of their earlier gains, remained well above levels seen at the turn of the year.

Data from the housing sector indicated that construction activity appeared to be emerging from its extended decline. Single-family housing starts registered a sizable increase in June, and the number of starts stood well above the record low recorded in the first quarter of this year. However, in the much smaller multifamily sector, starts continued to decline, on net, in 2009 after falling significantly in the second half of 2008 amid tight credit conditions and rapidly deteriorating demand fundamentals for apartment buildings. The latest sales data suggested that demand for new houses may be strengthening after stabilizing in the early portion of this year. Although sales remained quite modest, they were enough, given the very slow pace of production, to pare the overhang of unsold new single-family houses: In June, these inventories stood at about one-half of their peak in the summer of 2006, and the months' supply of new homes was down considerably from its record high in January. Sales of existing single-family houses, which were fairly flat early in the year, posted their third consecutive monthly increase in June, and pending home sales agreements through June suggested that resale activity would rise further in the months ahead. Sales of existing homes had been supported for much of the year by heightened volumes of transactions involving bank-owned and other distressed properties; the uptick in May and June, however, appeared to have been driven by an increase in transactions of non-distressed properties. The apparent stabilization in housing demand seen in recent months was likely due, in part, to improvements in housing affordability stemming from low interest rates for conforming mortgages and lower house prices.

Real investment in E&S continued to contract in the second quarter; however, the estimated rate of decline was substantially smaller than in the previous two quarters. Business outlays on motor vehicles leveled off in the second quarter after an extended period of steep declines. Real spending in the high-tech sector declined, although real outlays for computing equipment posted their first gain in a year. Outside of high-tech and transportation, real spending on equipment dropped again in the second quarter but at a slower pace than in the previous quarter. Although the fundamental determinants of investment in E&S remained weak, conditions appeared less unfavorable, on balance, than earlier in the year. In particular, the decline in business output was less pronounced in the second quarter than in prior quarters, and estimates of the user cost of capital fell back somewhat in the second quarter after spiking last year. Other forward-looking indicators generally improved, but they remained at levels consistent with a weak outlook for E&S investment. Corporate bond spreads over Treasury securities continued to ease, and monthly surveys of business conditions and sentiment generally were less downbeat than earlier in the year. In addition, the July Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey reported that the net percentage of banks that had tightened standards and terms on commercial and industrial (C&I) loans receded somewhat, although the July National Federation of Independent Business survey showed that the share of small businesses reporting increased difficulty in obtaining credit remained high. Conditions in the nonresidential construction sector generally remained quite poor, with spending in most major categories staying on a downward trajectory through June. Vacancy rates continued to rise, property prices fell further, and, as indicated by the July Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey, financing for nonresidential construction projects became even tighter.

In May, the U.S. international trade deficit narrowed to its lowest level since 1999, as exports increased moderately and imports declined. The increase in exports of goods and services was led by a climb in exports of industrial supplies, particularly of petroleum products, and reflected both higher prices and greater volumes. The value of imports of goods and services fell at a slower pace than in April. Imports of petroleum products exhibited the largest decline, with the fall wholly reflecting lower volumes, as petroleum prices rose. Imports of services and automotive products moved down somewhat, while non-oil industrial supplies were largely unchanged. Overall imports of consumer goods were also about unchanged, as a large decline in pharmaceuticals offset increases in a number of other goods. In contrast, imports of computers moved up strongly in May.

Recent indicators of economic activity in the advanced foreign economies suggested that the pace of contraction in those countries moderated further. Purchasing managers indexes continued to rebound but did not yet point to expansion for all countries. Industrial production, while remaining well below pre-crisis levels, moved up strongly in Japan and edged up in the euro area and in the United Kingdom. Indicators of economic sentiment also improved. However, labor market conditions continued to deteriorate, and credit standards remained generally tight. In emerging market economies, recent data showed that economic activity surged across emerging Asia in the second quarter. Real GDP rebounded sharply in China and South Korea, and the preliminary estimate in Singapore indicated a substantial increase. In China, policy stimulus lifted activity and thus helped boost China's imports, primarily from other countries in Asia. Indicators for these other countries also pointed to a strong rebound in the second quarter. Activity remained depressed in Mexico, partly reflecting the adverse effect of a swine flu outbreak. In contrast, activity in Brazil appeared to have begun to recover.

In the United States, overall PCE prices rose in June following little change in each of the previous three months. The increase largely reflected a sizable increase in gasoline prices, which appeared to have caught up with earlier increases in crude oil prices. The latest available survey data showed that gasoline prices flattened out, on net, in July. Excluding food and energy, PCE prices moved up moderately in June. For the second quarter as a whole, core inflation picked up from the pace in the first quarter, which had been revised down because of smaller increases in the imputed prices of nonmarket services. Median year-ahead inflation expectations in the Reuters/University of Michigan Survey of Consumers held relatively steady in July, as in recent months. Longer-term inflation expectations were about the same as the average over 2008. The producer price index for core intermediate materials turned up in June following a string of monthly declines that likely reflected the pass-through of the large declines in spot prices of commodities in the second half of last year. All measures of hourly compensation and wages suggested that labor costs decelerated markedly this year in response to the considerable deterioration in labor market conditions.