In their discussion of the economic situation and outlook, meeting participants agreed that the incoming data and anecdotal evidence had strengthened their confidence that the downturn in economic activity was ending and that growth was likely to resume in the second half of the year. Many noted that their baseline projections for the second half of 2009 and for subsequent years had not changed appreciably since the Committee met in June but that they now saw smaller downside risks. Consumer spending appeared to be in the process of leveling out, and activity in a number of local housing markets had stabilized or even increased somewhat. Reports from business contacts supported the view that firms were making progress in bringing inventories into better alignment with their reduced sales and that production was stabilizing in many sectors--albeit at low levels--and beginning to rise in some. Nonetheless, most participants saw the economy as likely to recover only slowly during the second half of this year, and all saw it as still vulnerable to adverse shocks. Conditions in the labor market remained poor, and business contacts generally indicated that firms would be quite cautious in hiring when demand for their products picks up. Moreover, declines in employment and weakness in growth of labor compensation meant that income growth was sluggish. Also, households likely would continue to face unusually tight credit conditions. These factors, along with past declines in wealth that had been only partly offset by recent increases in equity prices, would weigh on consumer spending. The data and business contacts indicated very substantial excess capacity in many sectors; this excess capacity, along with the tight credit conditions facing many firms, likely would mean further weakness in business fixed investment for a time. Even so, less-aggressive inventory cutting and continuing monetary and fiscal policy stimulus could be expected to support growth in production during the second half of 2009 and into 2010. In addition, the outlook for foreign economies had improved somewhat, auguring well for U.S. exports. Participants expected the pace of recovery to pick up in 2010, but they expressed a range of views, and considerable uncertainty, about the likely strength of the upturn--particularly about the pace of projected gains in consumer spending and the extent to which credit conditions would normalize.

Most participants anticipated that substantial slack in resource utilization would lead to subdued and potentially declining wage and price inflation over the next few years; a few saw a risk of substantial disinflation. However, some pointed to the problems in measuring economic slack in real time, and several were skeptical that temporarily low levels of resource utilization would reduce inflation appreciably, given the loose empirical relationship of economic slack to inflation and the fact that the public did not appear to have reduced its expectations of inflation. Participants noted concerns among some analysts and business contacts that the sizable expansion of the Federal Reserve's balance sheet and large continuing federal budget deficits ultimately could lead to higher inflation if policies were not adjusted in a timely manner. To address these concerns, it would be important to continue communicating that the Federal Reserve has the tools and willingness to begin withdrawing monetary policy accommodation at the appropriate time to prevent any persistent increase in inflation.

Developments in financial markets during the intermeeting period were again seen as broadly positive; the cumulative improvement in market functioning since the spring was viewed as quite significant. Markets for corporate debt continued to improve, and private credit spreads narrowed further. With the TALF continuing to provide important support, markets for asset-backed securities also showed improvement, and recent issuance had neared levels observed prior to the second half of 2008. Higher equity prices appeared to result not only from generally better-than-expected corporate earnings, which seemed largely to reflect aggressive cost cutting, but also from a reduction in the perceived risk of extremely adverse outcomes and a consequent increase in investors' appetite for riskier assets. However, participants noted that many markets were still strained and that financial risks remain. The improvement in financial markets was due, in part, to support from various government programs, and market functioning might deteriorate as those programs wind down. While financial markets had improved, credit remained tight, with many banks--though fewer than in recent quarters--having reported that they again tightened loan standards and terms. Increases in interest rates and reductions in lines on credit cards were affecting small businesses as well as consumers. All categories of bank lending had continued to decline. Worsening credit quality was still cited by banks as an important reason for the tightening of credit conditions, though anecdotal evidence suggested that the deterioration in the credit quality of consumer loans might be slowing. Nonetheless, several participants noted that banks still faced a sizable risk of additional credit losses and that many small and medium-sized banks were vulnerable to deteriorating performance of commercial real estate loans. Participants again observed that obtaining or renewing financing for commercial real estate properties and projects was extremely difficult amid worsening fundamentals in that sector, though some noted anecdotal evidence that the addition of highly rated commercial MBS to the list of securities that can be pledged as collateral for TALF loans had contributed to an improvement in liquidity in that market.

Labor market conditions remained of particular concern to meeting participants. Though recent data indicated that the pace at which employment was declining had slowed appreciably, job losses remained sizable. Moreover, long-term unemployment and permanent separations continued to rise, suggesting possible problems of skill loss and a need for labor reallocation that could slow recovery in employment as the economy begins to expand. The unusually large fraction of those who were working part time for economic reasons and the unusually low level of the average workweek, combined with indications from business contacts that firms would resist hiring as sales and production turn up, also pointed to a period of modest job gains and thus a slow decline in the unemployment rate. Wages and benefits continued to decelerate, reflecting--in the judgment of many participants--substantial slack in labor markets. Several participants noted that the deceleration in labor costs should eventually support a pickup in hiring. Recently, however, it contributed to weakness in household incomes.

Consumer spending remained weak, but participants saw evidence that it was stabilizing, even before the boost to auto purchases provided by the cash-for-clunkers program. Real PCE declined little, on balance, during the first half of 2009 after dropping sharply during the second half of 2008 and was essentially constant during May and June. Several participants noted the recent rebound in equity prices and thus household wealth as a factor that was likely to support consumer spending. Many noted, however, that households still faced considerable headwinds, including reduced wealth, tight credit, high levels of debt, and uncertain job prospects. With these forces restraining spending, and with labor income likely to remain soft, participants generally expected no more than moderate growth in consumer spending going forward. An important source of uncertainty in the outlook for consumer spending was whether households' propensity to save, which had risen in recent quarters, would increase further: Analysis based on responses to past changes in wealth relative to income suggested that the personal saving rate could level out near its current value; however, there was some chance that the increased income volatility and reduced access to credit that had characterized recent experience could lead households to save a still-larger fraction of their incomes.

Regional surveys and anecdotal reports continued to indicate low levels of activity across many goods-producing industries and in the service sector, but they also pointed to some optimism about the outlook. Firms appeared to be making substantial progress in reducing inventories toward desired levels; indeed, inventories of motor vehicles appeared quite lean following earlier production shutdowns and the recent boost to sales from the cash-for-clunkers program. Accordingly, participants expected firms to slow the pace of inventory reduction by raising production; this adjustment was likely to make an important contribution to economic recovery in the second half of this year. In contrast, business contacts generally reported setting a high bar for increasing capital investment once sales pick up, because their firms now have unusually high levels of excess capacity.

In the residential real estate sector, home sales, prices, and construction had shown signs of stabilization in many areas and were increasing modestly in others, but a still-sizable inventory of unsold existing homes continued to restrain homebuilding. Commercial real estate activity, in contrast, was being weighed down by deteriorating fundamentals, including declining occupancy and rental rates; by falling prices; and by difficulty in refinancing loans on existing properties.

Manufacturing firms appeared to have benefitted recently from an earlier- and stronger-than-expected pickup in foreign economic activity, especially in Asia, and the resulting increase in demand for U.S. exports. Several participants noted that improving growth abroad would likely contribute to greater growth in U.S. exports going forward.

A number of participants noted that fiscal policy helped support the stabilization in economic activity, in part by buoying household incomes and by preventing even larger cuts in state and local government spending. Participants generally anticipated that fiscal stimulus already in train would contribute to growth in economic activity during the second half of 2009 and into 2010, but the stimulative effects of policy would fade as 2010 went on and would need to be replaced by private demand and income growth.