The decisions by the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) at the June meeting to leave the target range for the federal funds rate unchanged and to maintain the sizes of its large-scale asset purchase programs, along with the accompanying statement, were broadly in line with market expectations. However, investors initially marked up their expected path for the federal funds rate following the release of the statement, as they apparently interpreted it as suggesting a more favorable assessment of prospects for economic growth than had been anticipated. Subsequently, investors revised down the expected policy path after the June employment report and the Chairman's semiannual monetary policy testimony. These declines were more than offset by the favorable economic information received toward the end of the intermeeting period, including the stronger-than-expected July employment report. On net, the market-implied path of the federal funds rate ended the period about the same as at the time of the June FOMC meeting. Yields on nominal Treasury securities were also little changed, on balance, over the intermeeting period, though there were sizable intraday movements in response to macroeconomic data releases and Federal Reserve communications. Inflation compensation based on five-year Treasury inflation-protected securities (TIPS) declined, on net, over the intermeeting period, while five-year inflation compensation five years ahead rose somewhat. Liquidity in the TIPS market reportedly continued to be poor, making unclear the extent to which movements in TIPS inflation compensation reflected changes in investors' expectations of future inflation.

Functioning in short-term funding markets generally showed further improvement over the intermeeting period. Consistent with reduced concerns about the financial condition of large banking institutions, London interbank offered rates (Libor) continued to edge down. Three- and six-month Libor-OIS (overnight index swap) spreads--while still somewhat elevated by historical standards--declined a bit further and stood at levels last recorded in early 2008. Bid-asked spreads for most types of repurchase agreements edged down. Since June, spreads on A2/P2-rated commercial paper and AA-rated asset-backed commercial paper were little changed, on net, remaining at the low ends of their ranges over the past two years. Indicators of Treasury market functioning were little changed over the intermeeting period, and functioning continued to be somewhat impaired. Bid-asked spreads held roughly steady, and trading volumes remained low. The on-the-run liquidity premium for the 10-year Treasury note was little changed at elevated levels, although it was well below its peak last fall.

Broad stock price indexes rose, on net, over the intermeeting period, as investors responded to strong second-quarter earnings reports and indications that the economy may be stabilizing. The spread between an estimate of the expected real equity return over the next 10 years for S&P 500 firms and an estimate of the real 10-year Treasury yield--a rough gauge of the equity risk premium--narrowed a bit more but remained high by recent historical standards. Option-implied volatility on the S&P 500 index also dropped a bit further. Yields on BBB-rated and speculative-grade corporate bonds declined over the intermeeting period. As a result, corporate bond spreads narrowed further and dropped below the previous peak levels reached in 2002 following the 2001 recession. Conditions in the leveraged loan market continued to improve as secondary-market prices rose further and bid-asked spreads narrowed.

Investor sentiment toward the financial sector improved further over the intermeeting period, boosted, in part, by better-than-expected second-quarter earnings results at larger banking institutions. Over the period, bank equity prices rose, and credit default swap spreads on financial firms declined. Nonetheless, some investors commented that the positive upside surprises at large financial institutions were mostly related to investment banking and trading activities, which may not provide a stable source of earnings, and to mortgage refinancing activity, which may recede if longer-term rates rise. Market participants also focused on the large consumer loan losses reported by many banks. The financial condition of CIT Group, Inc., one of the largest lenders to middle-market firms, worsened sharply over the period, but broader financial market conditions appeared to be largely unaffected by this development.

The level of private domestic nonfinancial sector debt apparently declined again in the second quarter, as household debt was estimated to have dropped and nonfinancial business debt appeared to have been essentially unchanged. Gross issuance of speculative- and investment-grade bonds by nonfinancial corporations slowed in July from its outsized second-quarter pace. Issuance of institutional loans in the syndicated leveraged loan market reportedly remained extremely weak in July, while bank loans and commercial paper continued to run off, leaving net debt financing by nonfinancial corporations at around zero. In contrast, the federal government issued debt at a rapid clip, and state and local government debt was estimated to have expanded moderately.

Commercial bank credit contracted further in June and July. All major loan categories declined, apparently reflecting the combined effects of weaker demand for most types of loans, some substitution from bank loans to other funding sources, and an ongoing tightening of lending standards and terms. Commercial and industrial lending dropped steeply amid subdued origination activity and broad-based paydowns of outstanding loans. In the July Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey, respondents indicated that the most important reasons for the decline in C&I loans in 2009 were weaker demand from creditworthy borrowers and the deterioration in credit quality that had reduced the number of firms that respondents viewed as creditworthy. The contraction in commercial real estate (CRE) lending accelerated. Large fractions of respondents to the July survey again noted that they had tightened standards and that the demand for CRE loans had weakened further.

M2 was little changed, on net, in June and July. Retail money market mutual funds and small time deposits dropped significantly in June and were estimated to have contracted again in July, likely reflecting the very low rates of interest on these assets and a continued reallocation of wealth toward riskier assets. These declines were partly offset by a net increase in liquid deposits, also suggesting some portfolio reallocation within M2 assets. Currency expanded weakly, apparently because of soft foreign demand.

The tone of financial markets abroad improved further during the intermeeting period. Stock markets rose globally, as positive U.S. earnings reports and news of strong economic rebounds in emerging Asian economies reportedly lifted investor sentiment. European bank stocks rose especially rapidly, spurred by reports of better-than-expected earnings among some European banks as well as some U.S. financial institutions. The dollar depreciated mildly on a trade-weighted basis since late June.

The European Central Bank (ECB), the Bank of England, the Bank of Canada, and the Bank of Japan kept their respective policy rates constant over the intermeeting period. However, overnight interest rates in the euro area declined in the wake of the June 24 injection by the ECB of one-year funds at a fixed rate of 1 percent. The ECB also began its purchases of covered bonds, and yields on intermediate-term European covered bonds declined since the purchases began in early July. After leaving the size of its Asset Purchase Facility (APF) unchanged at its July meeting, the Bank of England, at its August meeting, raised the size of the APF to £175 billion and widened the set of gilts it would purchase. Benchmark gilt yields fell noticeably on the announcement after moving higher in July.