At its meeting on October 3, 2000, the Committee adopted a directive that called for maintaining conditions in reserve markets consistent with an unchanged federal funds rate of about 6-1/2 percent. In taking that action, the members noted that the growth of aggregate demand had moderated appreciably, the prospects for a significant rise in inflation seemed quite limited for the near term, and previous policy tightening actions and the earlier rise in energy prices had not yet exerted their full restraining effects on demand. Nevertheless, in the context of continuing substantial pressures on labor resources and the potential effects of the previous rise in energy prices on inflation expectations, members believed it was necessary to remain on guard for signs of rising inflation over the intermediate term. As a result, they agreed that the statement accompanying the announcement of their decision should continue to indicate that the risks remained weighted mainly in the direction of rising inflation.

Open market operations were directed throughout the intermeeting period toward maintaining the federal funds rate at the Committee's targeted level of 6-1/2 percent, and the average rate remained close to the intended level. Short- and intermediate-term market interest rates registered small mixed changes over the intermeeting interval. At longer maturities, Treasury coupon yields drifted slightly lower, and rates on high-grade corporate securities changed little. However, growing market concerns about the outlook for corporate earnings led to substantial increases in interest rates on lower-rated investment-grade and high-yield bonds, and the early November survey of senior loan officers indicated that banks had tightened further their standards and terms for business loans. The mixed reports on corporate earnings, incoming information indicating slower growth in economic activity in the United States, and wide swings in and uncertainty about the price of oil contributed to a sharp drop in broad indexes of stock market prices over the period in volatile trading.

In foreign exchange markets, the trade-weighted value of the dollar increased slightly further on balance over the intermeeting interval in terms of the currencies of a broad group of U.S. trading partners. Among the major foreign currencies, the dollar moved up against the euro and the Canadian and Australian dollars but edged down a bit in terms of the yen. The dollar rose to a record level against the euro in the weeks following the FOMC meeting, but the release of weaker-than-expected U.S. economic growth data in late October was seen as possibly marking a shift in the relative growth rates, and the dollar subsequently gave up much of its intermeeting gains in terms of the euro. The dollar also posted gains against an index of the currencies of other important trading partners, largely reflecting conditions in some emerging economies. Concerns about Argentina's recent economic and fiscal performance and its external financing situation spilled over to other Latin American countries, notably Brazil and Mexico, and political developments in Indonesia and the Philippines depressed the currencies of those countries.

The broad monetary aggregates decelerated in October. The slower growth of M2 followed strong expansion in August and September, however, and growth since midyear was at about the same pace as in the first half of the year. M3 also increased at a slower rate in October, partly reflecting weakness in bank lending and declines in bank holdings of securities. The growth of domestic nonfinancial debt picked up in September in association with an increase in the pace of private borrowing and a less rapid paydown of federal debt.