In the Committee's discussion of current and prospective economic conditions, members commented that the information that had become available since the previous meeting had reinforced earlier indications of appreciable slowing in the expansion of economic activity. The cumulating evidence of moderating expansion seemed especially clear in the information on employment growth and manufacturing output. Aggregate demand currently appeared to be growing at a pace a little below the rate of increase in the economy's output potential, a configuration that could well persist in coming quarters. Actual and expected shortfalls in business profitability had led to tighter credit conditions for many borrowers and lower equity prices, which would continue to restrain spending; moreover, further pressure on profit margins, with adverse effects on financial markets, business investment, and consumer spending, was a distinct possibility. Members observed, however, that economic growth had rebounded sharply from temporary slowdowns previously in the current expansion, and several noted the possibility that a less restrictive fiscal policy stance would be bolstering demand in the years ahead.

Although the softening in aggregate demand moved in the direction of containing potential inflation pressures, the members continued to be concerned about the possibility that inflation would edge higher. Even with demand growth slower, labor markets were likely to remain unusually tight for some time, and in such circumstances labor costs could begin to rise increasingly in excess of even elevated gains in productivity. Some members also commented that energy prices might not trend lower as soon as, or to the extent, now expected by market analysts, and a few raised the prospect that the dollar might depreciate from its currently elevated level and add to potential upward pressures on domestic prices over the forecast horizon.

A key factor underlying the economic outlook was the emergence in recent months of less accommodative financial conditions for many businesses, including some further tightening since the meeting in early October, and decreases in the wealth of households. The slowdown in the pace of the expansion and disappointing business earnings had fostered more cautious attitudes on the part of lending institutions and investors. Anecdotal comments from around the country supported the indications from surveys of tightening terms and standards at banks for business borrowers. At the same time, spreads in securities markets had widened, most sharply on obligations of borrowers rated below investment grade, and as a result those borrowers faced higher credit costs. Lender caution and less receptive markets probably had contributed to considerable weakening recently in overall growth of credit to nonfinancial businesses. Rising interest and energy costs in conjunction with restraint on the prices of final output had depressed the earnings and stock market valuations of many firms, notably in the high-tech area, with adverse repercussions on their ability to borrow and willingness to invest and on the financial position of the households holding their equity shares.

Less hospitable conditions in financial markets for a number of borrowers and deteriorating profit margins had contributed to a substantial moderation in the growth of business fixed investment in recent months, and anecdotal reports of reductions in capital spending plans were consistent with continued more moderate expansion in such outlays. The recent deceleration was especially pronounced in expenditures for high-tech equipment and software, though such spending was still growing at a robust pace. It was suggested that the weakening expansion of expenditures in these capital goods might reflect a surfeit in capacity following a period of extraordinary growth in many industries--for example, those related to fiber optics. The available evidence did not indicate any material decrease in the optimism of equity market analysts as a group regarding the outlook for earnings over the long term. This suggested that their contacts among business executives remained fundamentally upbeat about the long-term prospects for productivity and earnings. In these circumstances, appreciable further growth in investment spending seemed to be in prospect for coming quarters, though undoubtedly at a slower pace than had been experienced on average in recent quarters.

Even limited slowing in the expansion of investment expenditures could be expected to have retarding effects on the growth of consumer income and spending. While such spending had held up well in the third quarter, the limited information available on more recent developments suggested some softening, though the data were not conclusive. Factors cited in support of a somewhat weaker trajectory in consumer spending included the impact of elevated energy costs, the high debt burdens of many households, and the ebbing of the wealth effects from strong earlier gains in stock market prices. Even so, anticipated increases in employment and income and still relatively high levels of consumer confidence were likely to support appreciable further growth in consumer spending, albeit probably at a rate somewhat below the brisk pace of the past few years.

Key indicators of housing activity had fluctuated considerably this year, but the evidence of recent months pointed on balance to a mild softening in such activity, a perception that was supported by anecdotal reports from several areas around the country. In general, housing demand was expected to edge lower in response to the same income and wealth effects that were influencing consumer durables expenditures and to the increase in mortgage interest rates that had occurred on net over the past year.

Current forecasts of appreciable growth in foreign economic activity had favorable implications for U.S. exports and the nation's trade balance, but some members expressed concern about financial and economic weakness in a number of foreign economies. Failure to remedy structural and other problems in some countries incurred the risk of economic and financial distress, with possible spillover effects on other economies and financial markets. While those risks seemed small, they might be difficult to contain. The exchange value of the dollar was another source of uncertainty for the outlook. In the view of some members, the dollar could well come under downward pressure as the nation's current account deficits continued to cumulate. A lower dollar would tend to have a favorable effect on the trade deficit but also would add to inflationary pressures in the domestic economy.

Members continued to be concerned about the outlook for inflation. Measured increases in "headline" consumer prices could be explained mostly as a result of sharp advances in energy prices, which many observers expected to be reversed at some point. However, core consumer price measures also displayed a gradual uptrend, perhaps only in part as a consequence of the passthrough effects of persistently high energy prices. Measures of labor compensation appeared to be accelerating, partly as a result of sharply rising health benefit costs. To be sure, unit labor costs in the nonfinancial corporate sector had changed little over the past year, undoubtedly reflecting impressive further gains in productivity. Even so, higher interest rates and increased energy and other input costs were adding to overall production expenses. To date, competitive pressures were continuing to inhibit the ability of many firms to pass on those costs, although a significant exception was a number of successful efforts to impose energy surcharges.

Looking to the future, however, the members generally agreed that the risks were in the direction of a heightening in inflation pressures despite their belief that growth in overall demand now seemed to have declined to a more sustainable pace and probably would continue to expand for a time at a rate below that of the economy's output potential. The members believed that growth in labor compensation was likely to remain under upward pressure from the anticipated persistence of very tight conditions in labor markets that would enable wages to catch up to earlier gains in labor productivity. Whether offsetting increases in the growth of labor productivity would materialize was open to question, in part because productivity growth might tend to level out in the context of less ebullient expansion in business investment. Another key factor in the outlook for inflation was the course of oil and other energy prices. Thus far, increases in energy costs had been reflected only marginally in core consumer prices, and while there were widespread market expectations of declining oil prices in coming quarters, a great deal of uncertainty, including the potential for more difficulties in the Middle East, surrounded the timing and extent of such an outcome. The longer relatively high energy prices persisted, of course, the greater might be their imprint on both inflation expectations and core prices. In sum, the moderation in economic expansion, the persistence of highly competitive conditions in most domestic markets, the outlook for continued robust gains in productivity, and relatively subdued inflation expectations were favorable factors in the inflation outlook, but the members continued to view the prospects as weighted on balance in the direction of a gradual uptrend in core inflation.

In the Committee's discussion of policy for the intermeeting period ahead, all the members supported a proposal to maintain an unchanged policy stance consistent with the federal funds rate continuing to average about 6-1/2 percent. Despite clear indications of a more moderate expansion in economic activity, persisting risks of heightened inflation pressures remained a policy concern, particularly in the context of an evident, if gradual, uptrend in key measures of core inflation. Indeed, a few members commented that measures of core inflation already were near or slightly above levels that they viewed as acceptable for the longer run. Although overall financial conditions had tightened over the course of recent months and currently appeared to be holding down the growth in spending, this added restraint was likely to be necessary to contain inflation pressures. In these circumstances, all the members saw the maintenance of a steady policy as the best course at this juncture to promote the Committee's longer-run objectives of price stability and sustainable economic expansion.

Still, growth had slowed more quickly than many members had anticipated, and financial market and other developments now seemed more likely to keep pressures on resources from mounting over coming quarters. Under the circumstances, the members focused at this meeting on the potential desirability of moving from a statement of risks weighted toward rising inflation to one that indicated a balanced view of the risks to the Committee's goals of price stability and sustainable economic growth. The members agreed that a stronger case could be made for a shift to a balanced risk statement than at the previous meeting. A few indicated that the decision was a close call for them, and several commented that developments might be moving in a direction that would make a shift advisable in the relatively near future. Even so, they were unanimous in concluding that such a change would be premature at this time. Concerns about the possibility of rising inflation persisted. And while the members could see an increased risk of a marked slowing of growth relative to the rapid rate of expansion of the economy's potential, the degree to which growth in demand might remain sufficiently damped to contain and offset those inflation pressures was quite uncertain. Moreover, a shift in the Committee's published views might induce an undesirable softening in overall financial market conditions, which in itself would tend to add to inflation pressures. The members concluded that retaining a risk statement weighted toward more inflation pressures would best represent their current thinking, but they believed it was desirable to provide some recognition of the emergence of increased downside risks to the economic expansion in the statement to be released after this meeting.