The information reviewed at this meeting suggested that economic growth had slowed appreciably from the rapid pace in the first half of the year. The slowdown was most apparent in housing construction and business investment in equipment and software, while consumer spending remained on a relatively solid upward trend. With expansion of aggregate demand less robust, industrial production and employment were rising at appreciably slower rates, though unemployment remained very low. Core inflation appeared to be increasing, but very gradually and in part reflecting the indirect effects of higher energy costs.

Growth in private nonfarm payroll employment slowed in October from the moderate September rate; since midyear, employment growth had been considerably lower than earlier in the year. The falloff in growth was concentrated in the manufacturing, retail trade, and temporary help services industries. By contrast, the pace of hiring was brisk in real estate and construction and slowed only slightly in services industries other than temporary help. The civilian unemployment rate held at its current cyclical low of 3.9 percent in October.

Industrial production edged down in October, after its growth had dropped abruptly in the third quarter to a pace well below that recorded during the first half of the year. Manufacturing output was unchanged in October; a further sharp decline in production of motor vehicles followed on the heels of a third-quarter slump, and the manufacture of other durables also fell. Expansion of output of high-tech equipment, which had been extraordinarily rapid earlier in the year, slowed somewhat in October. With production unchanged in October, the rate of capacity utilization in manufacturing fell to a level slightly below its long-term average.

Nominal retail sales edged up in October after rising substantially in the third quarter. Nondurable goods stores, notably apparel, registered a sizable increase in October sales, but that gain was more than offset by declines in outlays for durable goods, particularly motor vehicles. Consumer spending for services continued to grow at a moderate rate through September (latest data). Recent consumer buying patterns seemed to reflect moderate growth of real disposable income in recent quarters and still generally buoyant consumer sentiment.

Single-family housing starts declined further in the third quarter as a whole. Nevertheless, the drop in interest rates on fixed-rate mortgages since mid-May might have sparked the slight increase, on balance, in single-family housing starts in August and September and the upturn in new home sales in the third quarter. After a strong first half, multifamily starts dropped in the third quarter despite low vacancy rates and rising apartment rents.

Business investment in durable equipment and software decelerated sharply in the third quarter. In the high-tech area, spending on computers and related equipment as well as software recorded further robust gains. However, expenditures on communications equipment declined after a half-year of very strong increases, and outlays for other types of equipment also softened; investment in aircraft, autos, trucks, and construction and mining equipment fell, while growth of spending on agricultural and industrial equipment slowed. Despite the third-quarter weakness in expenditures, recent data on orders for nondefense capital goods suggested that spending for many types of equipment remained on an upward trend. Data on construction put in place indicated that nonresidential building activity picked up considerably in the third quarter, with the institutional, industrial, and office categories recording solid gains. Market fundamentals, including rising property values and low vacancy rates, suggested that further expansion of office building was likely. Other commercial construction, by contrast, remained weak, partly reflecting the already substantial stock of large retail stores and regional malls.

The pace of inventory investment slowed considerably in the third quarter. However, for a second consecutive quarter, the book value of inventories rose faster than sales, and inventory overhangs were evident in some industries. In manufacturing, stock accumulation edged up and the aggregate stock-shipments ratio in September, though still quite low by historic norms, was just above the middle of its range over the preceding twelve months. In the wholesale sector, inventory accumulation dropped in the third quarter; however, sales declined and the aggregate inventory-sales ratio for the sector was at the top of its narrow range over the past year. Retail stockbuilding also slowed in the third quarter, with much of the drop reflecting reductions in motor vehicle inventories at auto dealers. The aggregate inventory-sales ratio for this sector edged lower and was near the middle of its range over the past year.

The U.S. trade deficit in goods and services narrowed in August after having widened considerably in July; on balance, the trade deficit increased somewhat from its second-quarter level. The value of exports grew in the July-August period at about the same strong pace as that recorded for the second quarter. The value of imports also rose briskly over the two months, but at a slightly lower rate than that of the second quarter. The available information indicated that, on average, economic expansion in the foreign industrial countries slowed appreciably in the third quarter from the elevated pace during the first half of the year and that the slowdown importantly reflected little or no growth in Japan. In addition, economic activity appeared to have decelerated in many developing countries in the third quarter but remained solid in most of those nations.

Incoming data continued to indicate that price inflation had picked up somewhat. Consumer prices, as measured by the CPI, rose considerably in September (latest data) after having edged down in August; a sizable step-up in energy prices and a noticeable increase in core inflation contributed about equally to the acceleration. Although the core measure of CPI prices accelerated noticeably in the twelve months ended in September compared with the previous twelve-month period, PCE price inflation had been about steady. By contrast, core producer prices dropped a little in October and decelerated somewhat on a year-over-year basis, though the deceleration was more than accounted for by a surge in tobacco prices during the year ended in October 1999. With regard to labor costs, the third-quarter rise in the employment cost index (ECI) for hourly compensation of private industry workers was smaller than the elevated increase of the previous quarter. However, ECI compensation advanced considerably more during the year ended in September than in the previous year, with larger increases in benefits accounting for much of the rise. Average hourly earnings of production or nonsupervisory workers increased at a slightly higher rate in both October and the twelve months ended in October.