Despite a weakening of near-term inflation pressures, the market-implied path of the federal funds rate over the next year increased over the intermeeting period with improvements in the economic outlook amid a general easing in trade tensions. Near-term inflation compensation declined, while longer-term inflation compensation was little changed. Nominal and real Treasury yields increased moderately, on net, across the maturity spectrum.

Consistent with improving risk sentiment from recent trade developments, broad equity price indexes increased markedly, and credit spreads tightened. Credit spreads narrowed to very low levels relative to their historical distribution, except for the lowest-quality corporate bonds, which stood close to the median of their distribution. The VIX—a forward-looking measure of near-term equity market volatility—declined moderately.

The reduction in trade policy tensions between the U.S. and China led to an improvement in global economic growth prospects and lifted investor risk sentiment. The military conflict between Israel and Iran left only a limited imprint outside of energy markets. On net, equity indexes and market-based policy rate expectations increased in most major foreign economies. The dollar depreciated a bit further.

Conditions in U.S. short-term funding markets remained stable. After increasing over the previous intermeeting period because of incoming tax receipts, the TGA had resumed its decline in response to actions associated with the ongoing federal debt limit situation. Average usage of the ON RRP facility was little changed. Rates in secured markets were, on average, slightly below the effective federal funds rate, likely reflecting low Treasury bill supply.

In domestic credit markets, borrowing costs for businesses, households, and municipalities mostly edged down but remained elevated. Yields on both corporate bonds and leveraged loans declined modestly. Interest rates on small business loans decreased in May. Yields on higher-rated tranches of commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS) were little changed or increased slightly, whereas yields on lower-rated CMBS tranches declined, notably so for non-agency securities. Rates on 30-year fixed-rate conforming residential mortgages were little changed and remained elevated. Interest rates on credit card offers ticked up in March and April, while rates on new auto loans were little changed in May.

Financing through capital markets and nonbank lenders was readily accessible for public corporations and large and middle-market private corporations. Issuance of nonfinancial corporate bonds and leveraged loans, which slowed in April, was solid in May and early June, and private credit continued to be broadly available in April and May. Regarding bank credit, commercial and industrial loan growth picked up in April but moderated in May. Commercial real estate (CRE) loan growth was modest in April and May.

Credit remained available for most households. In the residential mortgage market, credit continued to be easily available for high-credit-score borrowers but was tighter for low-credit-score borrowers despite easing slightly in May. Growth in consumer loan balances at banks was robust in April and May.

Credit quality remained solid for large-to-midsize firms, municipalities, and most categories of mortgages, but delinquency rates continued to be somewhat elevated in other sectors. The credit performance of corporate bonds and leveraged loans remained stable in May. Delinquency rates on small business loans in March and April stayed above pre-pandemic levels. In the CRE market, CMBS delinquency rates remained elevated in May. Regarding household credit quality, the rate of serious delinquencies on Federal Housing Administration mortgages remained above pre-pandemic levels in April. By contrast, delinquency rates on most other mortgage loan types continued to stay near historical lows. In the first quarter, credit card and auto loan delinquency rates remained at elevated levels. Student loan delinquencies reported to credit bureaus shot up in the first quarter of the year after the expiration of the on-ramp period for student loan payments and were expected to climb further over the next few quarters. While delinquent student loan borrowers have not shown greater difficulty in meeting other debt payments so far, debt collections on defaulted student loans later this year could boost delinquency rates on other debt.