The information available at the time of the meeting indicated that consumer price inflation remained somewhat elevated. The unemployment rate continued to be low, and labor market conditions were solid. Available indicators suggested that real GDP was expanding at a solid pace in the second quarter.

Total consumer price inflation—as measured by the 12-month change in the PCE price index—was estimated to have been 2.3 percent in May, based on the consumer and producer price indexes. Core PCE price inflation, which excludes changes in consumer energy prices and many consumer food prices, was 2.6 percent in May. Both total and core inflation were lower than at the beginning of the year. Survey-based measures of short-term inflation expectations remained high, although the extent of increases in recent months had varied considerably and some measures had declined somewhat in May and June. Most survey-based measures of longer-term inflation expectations had held steady.

Recent data indicated that labor market conditions had remained solid. The unemployment rate was 4.2 percent in May, the same as in the previous two months. The labor force participation rate and the employment-to-population ratio moved down in May but remained near their levels since the beginning of the year. Total nonfarm payrolls increased at a solid pace in May, a little above the average monthly rate over the previous four months. The ratio of job vacancies to unemployed job seekers was unchanged at 1.0 in May. Average hourly earnings for all employees rose 3.9 percent over the 12 months ending in May, a little lower than a year earlier.

Recent information suggested that real GDP was rising in the second quarter, after it had declined slightly in the previous quarter. Real private domestic final purchases—which comprises PCE and private fixed investment and which often provides a better signal than GDP of underlying economic momentum—had increased solidly in the first quarter and appeared to be expanding further in the second quarter. Indicators for consumer spending, such as retail sales and motor vehicle purchases through May, pointed to solid PCE growth in the second quarter. Business fixed investment (BFI) rose markedly in the first quarter, apparently boosted by a pull-forward of imported capital goods in anticipation of tariff increases, and incoming data suggested that BFI was rising modestly in the second quarter.

International trade flows continued to be volatile amid substantial shifts in U.S. tariffs. After surging in the first quarter ahead of expected tariff hikes, U.S. imports—especially of consumer goods—declined sharply in April. That decline suggested that the front-loading of imports had stopped after the introduction of broad-based tariffs in early April. By contrast, U.S. exports firmed in April. In mid-May, the U.S. and China agreed to a 90-day reduction in bilateral tariffs, and recent indicators suggested that this change led to a rebound in trade flows.

Economic growth abroad picked up in the first quarter, lifted by the surge in shipments to the U.S.—especially from Europe and Asia excluding China—in anticipation of tariff hikes. More recent indicators pointed to a slowdown in foreign economic activity in the second quarter, partly reflecting lower exports to the U.S. and the effects of elevated uncertainty about the course of global trade policies.

Inflation abroad remained near central bank targets in many foreign economies, although recent data showed renewed inflationary pressures in some countries, notably in Mexico. By contrast, inflation in China remained subdued.

Many foreign central banks eased policy during the intermeeting period, citing concerns about economic growth and, in some cases, further progress on restoring price stability. In their communications, foreign central banks continued to emphasize the need to maintain policy flexibility amid substantial risks and uncertainty.