Committee participants continued their discussions related to their review of the Federal Reserve's monetary policy framework, with a focus on issues related to assessing the risks and uncertainty that are relevant for monetary policy and the potential implications of these issues for the FOMC's policy strategy and communications. The staff reviewed qualitative and quantitative tools that are commonly used to measure uncertainty about the economic outlook and the balance of risks, drawing on U.S. and international experience. The staff then discussed monetary policy strategies that aim to be robust to a variety of economic environments and ways in which risk-management considerations can be incorporated into monetary policy analysis and decisionmaking. The staff also considered the role of scenario analysis as a tool to communicate to the public risks and uncertainty around the economic outlook and their implications for monetary policy.

Participants noted that risks and uncertainty are important factors affecting their decisionmaking and emphasized the need for a policy strategy that aims to achieve the Committee's maximum-employment and price-stability objectives across a wide range of highly uncertain developments. Participants acknowledged that risks and uncertainty about the economy are pervasive and pose challenges to both the design and communication of monetary policy. They remarked that measuring and assessing risks and uncertainty are difficult and that the Committee has been well served by relying on a wide range of indicators, as well as information from business and community contacts, to gauge evolving risks, especially during periods of heightened uncertainty.

Participants remarked that effective communications about risks and uncertainty help the public understand the Committee's decisions and enhance the transparency, accountability, and effectiveness of monetary policy decisions. Participants had a preliminary discussion about a range of issues related to enhancing the Committee's suite of communication tools, including possible changes to the Summary of Economic Projections (SEP) and a potential broader use of alternative scenarios. Participants highlighted, however, the challenges associated with adjustments to these tools and noted that any revisions to the Committee's communication policies would need to be considered carefully and receive broad support across participants.

Participants agreed to continue their discussions of ways to enhance the Committee's communication tools and practices once they completed their review of their Statement on Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy. Participants expected that they would complete that review by late summer.