The information reviewed at this meeting suggested that economic growth had been sluggish on balance since midsummer. Housing demand remained strong, but business fixed investment was still in the doldrums and consumer spending had flagged in late summer before apparently picking up somewhat in the autumn. Payroll employment had changed little since midyear, and industrial production still seemed to be on a downward trend. Most price indexes continued to indicate that inflation had declined over the past year.

Private nonfarm payroll employment remained stagnant in the third quarter and edged down in October and November. Job losses in manufacturing were again large in the two months, and employment declined in construction and in the wholesale and retail trade industries. By contrast, services (except help-supply) and the finance, insurance, and real estate grouping recorded further solid gains. The unemployment rate rose to 6 percent in November, a level more consonant with other recent labor market indicators. Labor productivity in the nonfarm business sector continued to climb briskly, with the advance over the last four quarters being the largest since 1973.

Industrial production dropped sharply further in October, with roughly half of the decline related to a slowdown in motor vehicle assemblies and the manufacture of related parts. The rest of the manufacturing sector also was weak on balance, with output down in almost all market groups. The high-tech sector was an exception, although the rise in output of computers and semiconductors in October was smaller than earlier in the year and the production of communications equipment continued to fall. Consistent with the poor performance of industrial production, capacity utilization in manufacturing fell again in October and remained substantially below its long-run average.

Against the backdrop of smaller gains in disposable personal income and low readings on consumer confidence, growth of consumer spending had been quite sluggish in the last several months. Much of the weakness reflected a falloff in spending on new motor vehicles in September and October, largely because of reduced manufacturer discounts. Apart from motor vehicles, personal consumption expenditures picked up in October following two months of softness. Increases in outlays for services in September and October remained modest and about equal to the average rate of rise earlier in the year.

Housing starts dropped moderately in October, which was an unusually wet month across much of the country. However, residential housing activity had been very strong on balance this year despite an environment of sluggish employment and declining household wealth. Mortgage rates near historical lows had provided important support for single-family housing demand, and sales of new and existing homes had remained buoyant. In the multifamily sector, starts plunged in October to the slowest pace in almost six years. While some of the decline likely was attributable to inclement weather, apartment vacancy rates had risen significantly over the past year, perhaps partly in response to the single-family housing boom.

Business spending on equipment and software increased moderately in the third quarter, but the recent monthly pattern of data on shipments and orders for nondefense capital goods, along with anecdotal reports from businesses, signaled renewed weakness. Shipments of nondefense capital goods rebounded in October, led by a rise in computing equipment. In contrast, shipments of communications equipment plunged. Construction in the nonresidential sector slowed sharply further in the third quarter, but a few signs, including a rise in activity in October, suggested some moderation in the rate of decline.

The aggregate book value of manufacturing inventories changed little in October: declines in stocks of many types of durable goods were offset by modest stockbuilding of nondurables, and the ratio of stocks to shipments remained very low. Anecdotal information suggested that disruptions of West Coast dock operations stemming from a labor dispute had been quite small.

The U.S. trade deficit in goods and services changed little in September and the third quarter. The available information on economic activity abroad in the third quarter indicated that economic expansion remained moderate in the United Kingdom and sluggish in the euro area. Economic growth subsided somewhat from elevated second-quarter rates in Canada, Japan, and emerging Asia. Economic conditions in South America were generally still fragile.

Core consumer price inflation, as measured by the consumer price index (CPI) and the chain-weighted personal consumption expenditure (PCE) index, continued to trend lower in October. Inflation, in terms of both indexes, was down over the last twelve months when compared with the previous twelve-month period. At the producer level, core price inflation for finished goods over the twelve months ended in October was at a very low rate. With regard to labor costs, average hourly earnings of production or nonsupervisory workers increased moderately in November, and the growth in those earnings over the last twelve months fell considerably, evidently reflecting the slack in labor markets.