The Committee then turned to a discussion of the economic outlook and the conduct of monetary policy over the intermeeting period.

The economy appeared to have expanded at a robust pace in the fourth quarter, though well below the exceptional pace recorded in the third quarter. Consumer spending continued to increase at a solid rate over the final three months of the year, and activity in the residential sector remained at a very high level. On the business side, outlays for equipment and software likely posted moderate gains in the fourth quarter, and firms apparently accumulated inventories for the first time in three quarters. Despite the strong pace of economic activity, the labor market was improving only slowly, with private payrolls showing a small acceleration in the fourth quarter. Core consumer price inflation continued to slow, and inflation expectations remained subdued over the closing months of 2003.

The December employment report suggested that the labor market had not gained as much momentum as previously appeared to be under way. Private nonfarm payrolls increased only slightly in that month, and their level in November was revised down appreciably. The average monthly increase in employment in the fourth quarter was indicative of a fairly weak recovery in the labor market, although it was a clear improvement over the average monthly loss during the first half of the year. Manufacturing payrolls continued to shrink in December at about the same pace as in the previous few months, and holiday-related hiring in retail trade was below average. In other sectors, job gains were recorded in construction, education and health services, and professional and business services. Average weekly hours of production or nonsupervisory workers declined somewhat in December, reversing the gains of the previous two months. Aggregate hours worked by nonfarm employees fell in December but in the fourth quarter as a whole posted their first quarterly increase since 2000. Despite the weak payroll data, the unemployment rate, which is measured by the household survey, fell to 5.7 percent in December, in part because of a further decline in the labor force participation rate. Initial claims for unemployment insurance continued to drift down in the weeks following the reference week for the December employment report, suggesting improved job growth in January.

The pace of expansion in the industrial sector picked up in the fourth quarter. Total industrial production rose at the fastest rate since the second quarter of 2002, and manufacturing production posted solid and widespread gains. High-tech industries, including those producing semiconductors, computers, and communications equipment, accounted for nearly one-third of the increase in total industrial production in the fourth quarter. After having surged in the third quarter, the production of motor vehicles and parts moved up in the fourth quarter at about the same rate as overall manufacturing. Outside the manufacturing sector, output at mines increased modestly in the quarter, while output at utilities rose appreciably, led by a solid advance in electricity generation that mirrored the strengthening in the manufacturing sector. Capacity utilization was unchanged in December and remained well below its long-term average.

Sales of light vehicles jumped in December, and the fourth-quarter average, although below the torrid third-quarter pace, was well above that recorded for the first half of the year. These data, along with those on retail sales excluding autos, were consistent with a solid increase in real personal consumption expenditures in the fourth quarter. Real disposable personal income advanced smartly in November. Spending was also supported by the recent stock market gains, and by greater consumer confidence as reflected in the Michigan Survey Research Center’s index of consumer sentiment and the Conference Board’s index of consumer confidence, both of which stood significantly above their average readings for 2003.

Activity in the housing market remained very robust. In December, single-family starts edged down only a bit from the exceptional rate they had reached in November, and multifamily starts moved up to the highest level in almost four years. New home sales declined in November for the third consecutive month, but they were still not far below the record highs registered earlier in the year. Existing home sales had fallen back from September’s high, though the level in November was still noticeably higher than average monthly sales in the first half of 2003.

The available data suggested that business purchases of transportation equipment strengthened in the fourth quarter and that spending on other capital goods advanced at a moderate pace. Business expenditures on aircraft rebounded noticeably in the fourth quarter, albeit to a level that was still far below the levels that prevailed before the downturn following the terrorist attacks in 2001. Both fleet sales of light vehicles and truck sales also rose significantly. In the high-tech sector, real outlays for computing equipment and for software again appeared to have posted sizable increases in the fourth quarter, while spending on communications equipment was little changed after three quarters of double-digit growth. Outside transportation and high tech, nominal shipments were about unchanged in the fourth quarter, but the upward trend in orders established since the beginning of last year was consistent with further gains in spending. After holding roughly steady, on balance, in the first half of 2003, real spending on private nonresidential construction appeared to have slipped further in the third and fourth quarters. In the commercial and health-care sector and in the manufacturing sector, average nominal outlays in October and November were about unchanged from the previous quarter. However, spending on other types of construction moved down.

The book value of manufacturing and trade inventories excluding motor vehicles posted the third consecutive significant monthly increase in November. Stocks at manufacturers were down a little on average in October and November, but non-auto wholesalers and retailers accumulated inventories at a brisk pace. Strong increases in sales, however, kept book-value inventory-sales ratios at or near their recent lows. Motor vehicle and parts inventories ended the year noticeably above the level at the end of the third quarter.

The international trade deficit in November shrank to its lowest level in about a year. Exports of goods and services increased to a level not recorded since early 2001, while imports fell moderately. Recent data indicated that the pickup in economic activity in the major foreign industrial countries continued in the fourth quarter. Japanese exports, machinery orders, and industrial production rose strongly in October and November. Euro-area manufacturing data exhibited increasing strength, particularly in Germany. In the United Kingdom, indicators of business and retail sales in December pointed to a maintained expansion. And Canadian employment and sales data were strong in the fourth quarter, with the housing sector continuing to make a significant contribution to growth.

Prices of consumer goods and services other than food and energy continued to decelerate through the end of 2003. Overall consumer prices were flat, on balance, over the past three months, as a small increase in core prices and a large rise in food prices were offset by a sizable drop in energy prices. Over the year, the consumer price index posted a moderate increase that was noticeably below that in the previous year. Core consumer prices decelerated more sharply and rose only slightly over the year. Producer prices for finished goods were up moderately over the year, and the advance was substantially above that over the previous year. The rise last year was due almost entirely to substantial increases in food and energy prices as core producer prices rose only a little after having edged down over 2002. With regard to labor costs, the average hourly earnings of production or nonsupervisory workers on private nonfarm payrolls rose modestly in the twelve months ending in December, an increase somewhat below that over 2002.