At its meeting on December 9, 2003, the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) adopted a directive that called for maintaining conditions in reserve markets consistent with keeping the federal funds rate at around 1 percent. In reaching this decision, the Committee members generally perceived the upside and downside risks to the attainment of sustainable growth for the next few quarters to be roughly equal. They also judged that the probability of an unwelcome fall in inflation had diminished in recent months and now appeared almost equal to that of a rise in inflation. Nevertheless, with inflation quite low and resource use slack, the Committee believed that policy accommodation could be maintained for a considerable period.

The Committee’s decision at the December meeting to keep its target for the federal funds rate at 1 percent appeared to have been fully anticipated in financial markets, and interest rate futures for the first half of 2004 were essentially unchanged after the announcement. But futures rates for the second half of the year rose a few basis points, presumably in response to the Committee’s assessment that the probability of an unwelcome decline in inflation had fallen in recent months to a level almost equal to that of a rise in inflation. Subsequently, however, the release of the minutes for the October FOMC meeting, which indicated that at that time the Committee was concerned about the possibility of persistent slack arising from rapid productivity growth, and the publication of surprisingly modest growth in employment in December led most market participants to push back the date of the expected onset of tightening by several months to some time in the fall. Reflecting the change in policy expectations, intermediate- and longer-term nominal Treasury yields declined substantially over the intermeeting period. Yields on inflation-indexed debt fell by nearly as much, suggesting that the drop in nominal yields owed more to lower real interest rates than to reduced inflation compensation. Yields on investment-grade and most speculative-grade securities moved down by about the same amount as Treasury yields. Major equity indexes rose strongly in response to the declines in yields and positive news about the outlook for profits.

The exchange value of the dollar, as measured by the major currencies index, declined moderately on net over the intermeeting period. Ongoing investor concerns about the ability of the United States to finance its current account deficit reportedly were again a primary factor exerting pressure on the dollar.

M2 fell in December, the fourth consecutive monthly decline. The decline in M2 over the fourth quarter was the largest on record since the start of consistent data collection in 1959. The weakness was concentrated in liquid deposits and, to a lesser extent, in retail money market mutual funds and appeared to be due in large part to the unwinding of a previous buildup in deposits associated with heavy mortgage refinancing activity and to portfolio shifts by households into equities.