A portion of this discussion focused on the report of a working group that had been directed to study how the Committee’s announcements might be improved. In the course of the discussion, members stressed the importance that they attached to conveying clearly to the public information regarding the reasons for policy decisions and how those decisions related to the Committee’s longer-term objectives. However, only limited support emerged for the use of particular standard wording to express the Committee’s appraisals of the economic outlook and views about the balance of risks. Indeed, several members were in favor of discontinuing the use of statements regarding the balance of risks to the outlook and instead focusing mostly on the reasons for their policy decisions in the announcement. At the same time, all the members indicated that they could support a flexible approach in which the wording of the Committee’s announcements, including the assessment of the balance of risks going forward, would be adjusted gradually over time in keeping with evolving economic conditions.

In further discussion the members reviewed the potential value and drawbacks of accelerating the publication of Committee minutes. Possible benefits would include the provision of more complete information sooner after meetings on the considerations that led the Committee to adopt the current stance of policy. Some members expressed concern, however, that accelerated release of the minutes might have the potential to feed back adversely on the deliberations of the Committee and on the minutes themselves. The members also emphasized the importance of allowing sufficient time for them to review and comment on the minutes and for reconciling differences of opinion among the members of a large and geographically dispersed committee. At the conclusion of this discussion, staff was asked to study the issue further.

The members also discussed the possible advantages of making some changes in the content, time horizon, and frequency of the individual forecasts that are summarized in the semi-annual Monetary Policy Reports to the Congress. In general, the members saw little to be gained by altering the Committee’s current practices in any significant way, although some proposed relatively minor changes. It was agreed that there was no need to reach a decision on such changes at this time, but staff was instructed to ascertain the degree of interest on the part of the members in making possible minor adjustments to current procedures.

In the Committee’s discussion of current and prospective economic developments, the members commented that the information that had become available since the December meeting had tended to validate their earlier assessment that the expansion was firmly established and that robust economic growth, under way since about mid 2003, was likely to continue as the year progressed. Many emphasized that business expenditures now appeared to be on a solid upward trajectory amid widespread reports of much improved business sentiment. Indeed, business expenditures had broadened the sources of significant strength in the expansion, which earlier had been sustained mainly by household and government spending. Factors underlying a favorable outlook for economic activity continued to include stimulative fiscal and monetary policies, accommodative conditions in financial markets, and the positive effects of a strong uptrend in productivity on business investment incentives and, with some lag, on household incomes. The members nonetheless expressed disappointment that the acceleration in economic activity had thus far failed to generate significant strengthening in employment, though they pointed to a number of positive signs in labor markets. Given their expectations of persisting above-trend economic growth, they saw increasing demand for workers as a likely prospect going forward. Regarding the outlook for inflation, members observed that wide margins of slack in labor and product markets continued to hold down wages and prices, especially given the concurrent strength in productivity. Core consumer inflation appeared to have drifted lower recently, and a number of members mentioned the possibility of a modest further decline in such inflation from its current subdued level. Over the year ahead, however, the members generally anticipated little net change in consumer price inflation.

In keeping with the practice at meetings preceding the Federal Reserve’s semi-annual report to the Congress on the economy and monetary policy, the members of the Board of Governors and the presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks had provided individual projections of the growth of GDP, the rate of unemployment, and consumer price inflation for the year 2004. The forecasts pointed to a continuation of relatively vigorous growth in economic activity, some further decline in unemployment, and a quite low rate of inflation. Specifically, the forecasts of the expansion in real GDP between the fourth quarter of 2003 and the fourth quarter of 2004 had a central tendency of 4-1/2 to 5 percent and a full range of 4 to 5-1/2 percent. The projections of the civilian unemployment rate in the fourth quarter of 2004 were all in a range of 5-1/4 to 5-1/2 percent. Forecasts of consumer price inflation for the year, as measured by the PCE chain-type price index, were centered in a range of 1 to 1-1/4 percent, with a full range of 1 to 1-1/2 percent.

In their discussion of developments across the nation, members emphasized growing indications of rising business confidence and, despite persisting softness in a number of industries, more widespread signs of increasing business spending for equipment and software and for inventories. The members cited a variety of factors that pointed to a further pickup in business capital expenditures over the coming year, including the strength in new orders and shipments, increasing profits and cash flow, the improved financial condition of many business firms, the general availability of financing on favorable terms, and the temporary tax incentive on expenditures for new equipment. Anecdotal reports from business contacts about capital spending plans were indicative of appreciable further acceleration in business expenditures on a widening range of capital goods. While many contacts indicated that replacement demand or the cost-saving opportunities provided by more productive new equipment were still the driving factors in guiding investment decisions, there were more reports of investment spending to expand capacity.

The members also viewed business inventory investment as likely to provide some support to the economic expansion over the year ahead. Business inventories were at exceptionally low levels in relation to sales, and if further brisk growth in demand broadly in line with current forecasts materialized this year, business firms could be expected to make commensurate additions to their inventories. Indeed, inventories appeared to have turned up in the fourth quarter after declining on balance earlier in 2003 as businesses evidently became more confident that increases in their sales would be sustained.

While business expenditures had turned up, employers had continued to display a high degree of caution in hiring new workers. Employment had trended up since mid-2003 after a protracted period of job losses, but the gains were significantly weaker than was typical at similar stages of earlier business cycles. A key factor that had tended to hold down hiring was the continuing ability of business firms to meet increasing demand by improving productivity with existing workforces rather than hiring new workers. Against this background, labor markets continued to be described as soft in most areas, albeit with more signs of at least modest improvement. In this regard, members referred to positive developments such as the decline in initial claims and the rise in aggregate hours worked in the fourth quarter. Looking ahead, the members saw considerably faster growth in employment as a likely prospect in the context of further strengthening in aggregate demand and expectations of some slowing in the growth of productivity from its extraordinary pace in recent quarters. Several emphasized, however, that the timing and extent of the improvement in employment were subject to considerable uncertainty.

The household sector was continuing to supply major impetus to the expansion. Household spending was benefiting from stimulative fiscal and monetary policies, the wealth effects of rising real estate and equity prices, and increased consumer confidence about the economic outlook. Members noted that retailers in many parts of the country reported solid sales during the holiday period. With respect to the outlook for overall consumer spending, it was suggested that the elevated growth of productivity could be expected to raise incomes over time and thereby help to buttress consumption even as the stimulus from earlier tax cuts faded. Residential construction activity remained at a high level, evidently supported in part by recent declines in mortgage interest rates. Contacts in the housing industry indicated that they expected a high level of construction activity in 2004, though perhaps not as robust as in 2003.

Fiscal policy was providing considerable stimulus to the economy and would continue to do so in the first part of this year, reflecting the large tax refunds anticipated as a result of overwithholdings in 2003. Beyond the nearer term, however, the fiscal stimulus was projected to diminish under existing legislation. In this regard, one member questioned whether a robust expansion would be sustained once the fiscal impulse was removed. Some members expressed concern about the longer-run prospects for large federal deficits and their implications for the future performance of the economy.

In their comments about the international economy, members noted that the strengthening in economic activity abroad and the decline in the foreign exchange value of the dollar had boosted exports. Even so, the ongoing strength in imports was still producing a widening trade deficit, and net exports were expected to be a small arithmetic drag on domestic economic activity over the year ahead. Some members indicated that they were concerned about the implications of the nation’s rapidly growing external debt for domestic financial markets and the economy over time.

In the Committee’s discussion of the outlook for inflation, the members agreed that increases in core consumer prices were likely to remain muted this year, with ongoing strength in the expansion only gradually reducing the current output gap and anticipated gains in productivity exerting downward pressure on costs and prices. Some members commented, however, that the relationship between the output gap and inflation was quite loose and that the outlook for productivity remained uncertain. Accordingly, while members agreed that changes in core consumer price inflation were likely to be limited, there was some divergence of opinion about the most probable direction. In the view of many, some modest further disinflation appeared to be the most likely prospect. A few members noted that such disinflation, if it was associated with rapid growth in productivity, could be viewed as non-threatening. Moreover, the expected strength in aggregate demand would curb the extent of disinflation over time. A few members expressed the differing view that core consumer prices might well edge up over the course of the year in light of the considerable stimulus stemming from current monetary and fiscal policies and the possibility that the expected pickup in economic activity and employment, especially if it were on the high side of current forecasts, would be associated with slower growth in productivity. The evidence pointing to the possibility of an uptick in inflation was still quite limited, but some members noted that in addition to sizable advances in the prices of many commodities including oil, reports from business contacts indicated that a few firms had been able to raise their selling prices and maintain them at higher levels in an effort to pass on increases in costs. Overall, however, the pricing power of business firms remained quite limited.

In the Committee’s discussion of policy for the intermeeting period ahead, all the members favored an unchanged policy stance that was directed toward maintaining reserve conditions consistent with a target federal funds rate of 1 percent. While the members were persuaded that a relatively vigorous economic expansion was now firmly established and was likely at some point to call for a move toward a more neutral policy stance, they concluded that such an adjustment was not warranted under current circumstances. In this regard they stressed that unused labor and other resources remained substantial, that inflation was at a very low level, and that inflation was not expected to change appreciably in either direction over the year ahead. Members acknowledged that there were risks in maintaining what might eventually prove to be an overly accommodative policy stance, but for now they judged that it was desirable to take risks on the side of assuring the rapid elimination of economic slack.

With regard to the wording of the Committee’s press statement to be released shortly after the meeting, members discussed at some length the desirability of retaining a reference from earlier statements to the prospect that an accommodative policy could be maintained “for a considerable period.” The existing language had been explicitly qualified at the December meeting by tying it to low inflation and slack in resource use, thereby underscoring the notion that a move away from the current degree of policy accommodation would depend on economic conditions rather than simply on the passage of time. All the members agreed that a change in wording was desirable, not to signal a policy tightening move in the near term, but rather to increase the Committee’s flexibility to take such an action when it was deemed to be desirable and to underline that any such decision would be made on the basis of evolving economic conditions. However, some differences of opinion arose with regard to the specific proposal under consideration, namely to remove the reference to “considerable period” and to substitute one referring to “patience.” Those who fully endorsed the proposal believed that the new wording conveyed important information about the Committee’s strategy in an environment of price stability and economic slack and under those circumstances was unlikely to have outsized effects in financial markets. A number of members commented that expectations of sustained policy accommodation appeared to have contributed to valuations in financial markets that left little room for downside risks, and the change in wording might prompt those markets to adjust more appropriately to changing economic circumstances in the future. A few members, while expressing agreement with respect to the merits of a language change, nonetheless preferred to drop the reference to a “considerable period’’ entirely without substituting a reference to the Committee’s ability to be patient. In this view, even the replacement language would tend to shape expectations in ways that could complicate the conduct of policy, and with the economy in a strong uptrend, the Committee no longer needed to utilize such special language.