At its meeting on March 19, 2002, the Committee adopted a directive that called for maintaining conditions in reserve markets consistent with keeping the intended level of the federal funds rate at 1-3/4 percent. With the economy expanding at a significant pace, the Committee now saw the risks to achieving its long-term goals as balanced. Members noted that the impetus for the economic advance was to a large extent a temporary swing in inventory investment rather than a clear and substantial upswing in final demand. As a result, the outlook for the economy remained somewhat uncertain, and the current accommodative stance of policy continued to be viewed as appropriate. The members contemplated, however, that the stance of monetary policy would have to become less accommodative once clearer evidence emerged that a healthy expansion was firmly established.

The federal funds rate remained close to the Committee's target level of 1-3/4 percent during the intermeeting period. However, doubts about the strength of the recovery owing to the tone of the Committee's press statement along with mixed incoming data on final demand, announcements of weaker-than-expected corporate earnings, and heightening tensions in the Middle East prompted declines in yields on short- to intermediate-term Treasury securities. Yields on investment-grade bonds tended to edge higher, however, in the wake of concerns about the transparency of the accounting statements of some firms. Most major indexes of equity prices moved down sharply in response to the outlook for a weaker economic recovery and the adverse implications for corporate profits of economic and other developments.

In foreign exchange markets, the trade-weighted value of the dollar in terms of the major foreign currencies eased somewhat over the intermeeting period. Much of the dollar's decline occurred late in the period in response to the mixed character of U.S. economic data and relatively small declines in benchmark longer-term yields abroad. The dollar rose slightly on average in terms of an index of the currencies of other important trading partners, in part because of the further depreciation of the Argentine peso.

M2 and M3 contracted in March and April. The declines evidently reflected in part the rising opportunity costs of holding M2 assets as yields on the components of M2 declined in lagged response to the earlier easing of monetary policy and fostered transfers out of M2 funds, especially from retail money market funds to stock and bond mutual funds. Reduced demand for mortgage refinancing and lower nonwithheld federal payments also contributed importantly to the weakness in the broad monetary aggregates.