In the Committee's discussion of current and prospective economic developments, members commented that recently available statistical data and anecdotal reports suggested that the expansion in business activity was continuing. However, it had slowed considerably from its pace earlier in the year when it had received substantial impetus from a marked slowing in the runoff of inventories. How much final demand would strengthen going forward was still uncertain. A pause in the expansion was not an unusual development during the early stages of a cyclical recovery, and the members generally viewed a pickup in growth as a reasonable expectation. The currently stimulative stance of both fiscal and monetary policy would tend to undergird final demand, especially in the context of an economy that had exhibited a marked degree of resilience and strength in underlying productivity growth that would bolster household incomes and provide incentives for business capital spending. Members noted, however, that an already high level of consumer spending pointed to more limited than usual scope for further growth in such spending, and gloomy business sentiment in the face of disappointing sales and profits raised a question about the extent to which business investment would help to lift final demand over coming quarters. Given growth in economic activity broadly in line with current expectations, inflation was likely to remain benign for some time in the context of an apparently strong uptrend in structural labor productivity, excess capacity in many labor and product markets, and a related absence of pricing power in generally very competitive markets.

In their review of developments and prospects in key expenditure sectors of the economy, members commented that household spending had continued to be well maintained. In the consumer area, recent anecdotal reports provided a somewhat mixed, but on the whole positive, picture of consumer spending across the nation. Sales of motor vehicles had moderated after a surge during the closing months of 2001, but they remained relatively high and other consumer outlays had continued to increase. Looking ahead, some growth in overall consumer spending appeared likely in association with the now more firmly entrenched economic expansion. However, the pickup likely would be limited inasmuch as household spending had remained elevated through the period of economic weakness. Members commented that such an outlook was subject to uncertainties in both directions. On the upside, faster-than-anticipated growth could well materialize in an environment of monetary and fiscal policy ease and of gradually firming labor markets and rising productivity that would be boosting income growth. On the other hand, employment growth had been very sluggish to date, with employers remaining quite cautious in their hiring practices, and continued softness in labor markets could damp consumer confidence. The run-up in energy prices also was a negative for household purchasing power.

Household expenditures on new homes were likewise at an elevated level, although members reported weakness in some price segments and geographic areas of the housing market. In general, however, housing displayed ongoing strength in response to low mortgage rates, with rising prices in many areas, and the downside risks to this sector of the economy appeared to be limited. At the same time, members anticipated that growth, if any, in homebuilding activity would be subdued over the next several quarters after an extended period of strong expansion.

The members generally viewed business fixed investment as the key sector that would determine the strength of the expansion. Such investment had contracted further in the first quarter, but the decline was the smallest in a year. Looking ahead, the members anticipated a sluggish and delayed upturn in capital expenditures in the next few quarters against the backdrop of persistently gloomy business sentiment and large margins of excess capacity in numerous industries. Many business contacts commented on their unwillingness to expand capacity until they saw persuasive evidence of growing sales and profits. Accordingly, much of their current investment spending was focused on cost-saving equipment and software in an effort to bolster profits in a stable-price environment that made it difficult to pass on rising costs. The recent passage of temporary legislation that permitted a partial acceleration of tax expensing was expected to provide some impetus to capital investments, but the legislation appeared to have had little effect thus far. With regard to the outlook for nonresidential construction, members saw little prospect of any material increase in such construction over the next several quarters, given widespread anecdotal and statistical reports of high vacancy rates and excess capacity.

The markedly reduced pace of inventory liquidation in the first quarter of the year accounted for much of the step-up in GDP growth in that quarter and provided a strong indication that the period of inventory liquidation under way for more than a year probably was coming to an end. Indeed, anecdotal reports suggested that efforts to rebuild inventories were now being undertaken in a number of industries, such as steel and motor vehicles, and one regional survey indicated that businesses planned to accumulate inventories over the next six months. However, businesses remained quite cautious about the outlook for sales, and many firms might also be in the process of adapting to much reduced levels of inventories in relation to sales rather than restoring earlier inventory-sales ratios. A shift to inventory stocking in the near term, possibly in the current quarter, was seen as a reasonable expectation, but with numerous firms having already moved production into closer alignment with sales, members anticipated much less impetus to overall economic activity from inventories over coming quarters.

Recent and immediately prospective legislation had increased the fiscal stimulus in the federal budget, and members commented that the current dynamics of the budget process could result in larger increases in government spending than foreseen in recent budget estimates. In this regard some expressed concern about the longer-term implications of what they saw as a decline in fiscal discipline. At the state and local government levels, however, deteriorating fiscal positions in 2001 had impelled many states and localities to curb spending and raise various taxes and fees.

Although foreign economic activity appeared to be picking up to some extent and the dollar had edged lower, net exports were expected to remain a negative factor in the growth of the domestic economy. Members cited anecdotal reports that tended to support statistical evidence of strengthening economies in Europe and a number of developing Asian nations. Nonetheless, given a recovery in U.S. domestic demand approximating their current forecasts, growth in imports likely would exceed that of exports by a wide margin over the forecast horizon.

The outlook for inflation remained favorable. Nearly all measures of total and core prices had decelerated over the past year, and in the context of forecasts implying a continued sizable gap between actual and potential output, the risk that inflationary pressures would intensify significantly over coming quarters appeared to be quite limited; indeed, inflation might edge a bit lower in the early stages of the expansion. The deceleration in labor costs over the past several quarters, evidence of a surprisingly strong uptrend in structural labor productivity, low and stable inflation expectations, and the widespread absence of pricing power in highly competitive markets were signs that upside inflation risks in the period ahead were relatively small. The members recognized nonetheless that there were upward pressures on costs in a number of areas. These included significant increases in energy costs in recent months, evidence of an upturn in some industrial prices, sharp increases in many insurance costs, continuing upward pressures on medical costs, and modest recent declines in the foreign exchange value of the dollar. With the stance of monetary policy currently quite accommodative, the members saw the need for careful monitoring of the potential for rising inflation pressures as the economic recovery gained momentum.

In the Committee's discussion of policy for the intermeeting period ahead, all the members agreed on the desirability of maintaining an unchanged policy stance, with the target federal funds rate staying at 1-3/4 percent. The economic recovery was clearly continuing, but its rate of advance had moderated considerably and the economy's future course was subject to a marked degree of uncertainty. While the longer-term outlook for a strengthening economy remained favorable, a firming of policy at this time would be premature and would incur an undue risk to a healthy expansion. The members recognized that monetary policy exerted its effects with a considerable lag and that the current stance of policy probably was inconsistent with the Committee's inflation objective over time. However, current inflation pressures were subdued and were expected to remain so for a considerable period, thereby providing adequate opportunity to evaluate ongoing developments and tighten policy as needed later.

All the members favored the retention of a neutral balance of risks statement to be released shortly after this meeting. Against the longer-term inflation risks inherent in the current stance of policy, the members weighed the possibility that the expansion could be relatively subdued for a time, damping prices further and failing to reduce margins of underutilized resources. In any event, a neutral statement regarding the risks to the economy in the foreseeable future would not preclude a preemptive tightening adjustment in the stance of policy stance should new evidence bearing on the strength of the expansion and the outlook for inflation warrant such a policy move.