The information reviewed at this meeting indicated that economic activity expanded rapidly early in the year. Consumer spending increased moderately after large gains around the turn of the year, business outlays on durable equipment and software apparently steadied after a long decline, and single-family housing activity persisted at a relatively high level. Industrial production picked up in response to the advance in final demand and a slowdown in the runoff of excess inventory stocks. The demand for labor began to firm in April. Available information suggested that labor productivity had risen substantially in the first quarter. Although the recent surge in energy prices boosted headline consumer inflation in the first quarter, core measures of inflation had trended lower over the past year.

Private nonfarm payroll employment turned up in April after having posted small declines in February and March and steep reductions earlier. Job gains in April were spread across a wide range of industries. The services sector registered a sizable increase, with much of that rise occurring in the temporary-help industry that provides many of its workers to the manufacturing sector. In addition, layoffs continued to slow in the manufacturing sector, and some industries recorded their first solid advances in employment in more than a year. By contrast, the construction industry posted another large job decline as hiring again fell short of the usual seasonal rise. Despite the pickup in private payrolls, the unemployment rate rose to 6.0 percent in April, perhaps reflecting to an important extent the incentives created by the new federal program of extended unemployment benefits for some jobless workers to continue, or resume, looking for work.

Industrial production increased for a third straight month in March after the lengthy decline from its June 2000 peak. In the manufacturing sector, output in the first quarter retraced a little more than half of its fourth-quarter plunge. The gain was widespread across market groups and industries. High-tech equipment, notably computers and semiconductors, and motor vehicles and parts led the upturn with very large increases, while the telecommunications and aircraft industries weakened sharply further. Capacity utilization in manufacturing continued to rise in March from its low level at year-end, but at the end of the first quarter it was still substantially below its long-run average.

Consumer spending was well maintained in the first quarter, supported by sizable gains in disposable income. Demand for light motor vehicles remained robust, though somewhat below the fourth-quarter pace, in an environment of continued aggressive manufacturer pricing and low financing rates. Expenditures on a wide range of other consumer goods and services expanded briskly.

Residential housing activity surged in the first three months of the year, evidently spurred by unusually mild winter weather and low mortgage rates. Starts of single-family homes reached a twenty-three-year high in February before moderating somewhat in March, but multifamily starts were only slightly above the relatively slow pace in 2001. New home sales moderated a bit in the first quarter from the very strong pace of the fourth quarter, while quarterly sales of existing homes rose on the strength of a record high in February.

Business outlays for durable equipment and software had changed little thus far this year following the steep decline recorded in 2001. Spending on computer equipment continued to rise rapidly in the first quarter, and outlays for communications equipment generally stabilized after a large and lengthy decline. By contrast, business purchases of both motor vehicles and aircraft slowed sharply. In the nonresidential construction sector, investment slumped in office buildings, industrial structures, lodging facilities, and in drilling and mining. Moreover, available information indicated that this sector would remain depressed: Vacancy rates for office and industrial buildings continued to rise, with deterioration in the office sector especially pronounced in areas dominated by high-tech firms, and property values and rents for retail space and warehouses weakened.

The pace of liquidation of manufacturing and trade inventories slowed sharply in January and February after a notably large contraction in the fourth quarter, and the aggregate inventory-sales ratio declined a bit further. Stocks of manufacturers continued to fall through March (latest data). Wholesalers also continued to reduce their inventories during January and February (latest data), and the sector's inventory-sales ratio dropped further. At the retail level, stocks jumped in January and February, but almost all of the increase occurred at automotive dealers. The inventory-sales ratio for retail trade edged up over the two months but was still at a relatively low level.

The U.S. trade deficit in goods and services widened in January and February, reflecting a considerably larger expansion in the value of imports than in that of exports. The rise in imports related in part to the royalties and license fees paid to the International Olympics Committee for the rights to broadcast the Winter Olympic Games. With regard to economic activity abroad, the available information indicated that, on balance, foreign economic output had rebounded in the first quarter. The economies of the technology-sensitive Asian countries had already turned up in the fourth quarter and seemed to have grown rapidly in the early months of the year. The Canadian economy appeared to have expanded robustly in the first quarter, and economic activity in Europe evidently had turned upward. By contrast, available indicators suggested that the Japanese economy was still contracting, though at a less rapid rate.

Although higher energy prices continued to push up headline consumer price inflation in March, inflation had moved downward over the past twelve months. Both the overall consumer price index (CPI) and the personal consumption expenditure (PCE) chain-linked index decelerated significantly over the past year. Moreover, excluding their volatile food and energy components, both measures of inflation also fell over the past year. At the producer level, prices for finished goods echoed the pattern of consumer prices: Both total and core finished goods inflation decelerated on a year-over-year basis. Labor cost growth, as measured by hourly compensation in private industry, also appeared to have slowed a bit over the latest twelve-month period.