The information available at the time of the meeting suggested that U.S. economic activity had expanded at a solid pace so far this year. Labor market conditions remained solid. Job gains continued to be strong, while the unemployment rate had edged up but was still low. Consumer price inflation was running well below where it was a year earlier, but further progress toward the Committee's 2 percent inflation objective had been modest in recent months.

Consumer price inflation—as measured by the 12-month change in the price index for personal consumption expenditures (PCE)—was about the same in April as at the end of last year, although recent month-over-month readings of PCE prices were lower than earlier this year. Total PCE price inflation was 2.7 percent in April, and core PCE price inflation—which excludes changes in energy prices and many consumer food prices—was 2.8 percent. The consumer price index (CPI) in May showed that the 12-month change measure of total CPI inflation was 3.3 percent and core CPI inflation was 3.4 percent, and recent monthly CPI readings were lower than earlier this year. Al­though some survey-based measures of short-term inflation expectations had moved up, longer-term expectations were little changed and stood at levels consistent with those that prevailed just before the pandemic.

Labor demand and supply continued to move into better balance. Total nonfarm payroll employment increased at only a somewhat slower average monthly pace over April and May than the strong rate recorded in the first quarter. The recently released fourth-quarter data from the Quarterly Census of Employment and Wages suggested that while the strong reported rate of payroll increases last year may have been overstated, job gains were still solid. In May, the unemployment rate ticked up further to 4.0 percent, while the labor force participation rate and the employment-to-population ratio both moved down a little. The unemployment rates for African Americans and for Hispanics were somewhat higher in May than in the first quarter; both rates were above those for Asians and for Whites. The ratio of job vacancies to unemployment declined further to 1.2 in May, about the same as its pre-pandemic level. Most measures of the increase in nominal wages from a year earlier continued to trend down, including the 12-month change in average hourly earnings for all employees, which was 4.1 percent in May, 0.2 percentage point lower than at the end of last year.

Real gross domestic product (GDP) rose modestly in the first quarter, held down by significant negative contributions from inventory investment and net exports, which tend to be volatile components. In contrast, private domestic final purchases (PDFP)—which comprises PCE and private fixed investment and which often provides a better signal than GDP of underlying economic momentum—increased at a solid pace, similar to last year. Recent spending indicators suggested that GDP and PDFP were increasing at solid rates in the second quarter.

Real exports of goods edged up in April relative to March, following tepid growth in the first quarter. Real imports of goods jumped in April, driven by higher imports of autos and capital goods. Overall, the nominal U.S. international trade deficit widened in April, as imports of goods and services rose more than exports.

Foreign GDP growth firmed in the first quarter. A buoyant service sector helped Europe recover from a modest contraction in the second half of last year. In emerging market economies (EMEs), including China, growth was supported by strong external demand. The first-quarter surge in economic activity in China was also boosted by policy support, especially from fiscal policy. More recent Chinese data, however, especially a steep drop in lending to households and businesses in April, pointed to a considerable slowdown in China's economic activity in this quarter.

Headline inflation continued to ease in the advanced foreign economies (AFEs) through May, albeit at a slower pace than last year. While core inflation had slowed significantly, the core nonhousing services component remained elevated in several regions, partly reflecting strong nominal wage growth. Inflation inched up in EMEs, in part because of weather-related increases in food prices in some countries. The Riksbank, the BOC, and the ECB cut their policy rates as market participants expected, amid easing inflation. Communications about future policy decisions varied and were focused on domestic economic conditions.